AACHEN: a city in western Germany near the Dutch and Belgian borders; formerly it was Charlemagne's northern capital
AALII: a small Hawaiian tree with hard dark wood
ABA: 1. a loose sleeveless outer garment made from aba cloth; worn by Arabs. 2. a fabric woven from goat hair and camel hair. 
ABACA: Philippine banana tree having leafstalks that yield Manila hemp used for rope and paper etc
ABACK: 1. having the wind against the forward side of the sails. 2. by surprise. 
ABACUS: 1. a tablet placed horizontally on top of the capital of a column as an aid in supporting the architrave. 2. a calculator that performs arithmetic functions by manually sliding counters on rods or in grooves. 
ABADAN: a port city in southwestern Iran
ABASIA: inability to walk
ABASIC: of or relating to abasia (inability to walk)
ABATE: become less in amount or intensity
ABATOR: a person who abates a nuisance
ABBACY: the jurisdiction or office of an abbot
ABBE: a French abbot
ABBEY: 1. a church associated with a monastery or convent. 2. a convent ruled by an abbess. 3. a monastery ruled by an abbot. 
ABBESS: the superior of a group of nuns
ABBOT: the superior of an abbey of monks
ABDUCT: pull away from the body
ABEAM: at right angles to the length of a ship or airplane
ABED: in bed
ABEL: 1. Norwegian mathematician (1802-1829). 2. (Old Testament) Cain and Abel were the first children of Adam and Eve born after the Fall of Man; Abel was killed by Cain. 
ABELIA: any of various deciduous or evergreen ornamental shrubs of the genus Abelia having opposite simple leaves and cymes of small white or pink or purplish flowers; Asia and Mexico
ABET: assist or encourage, usually in some wrongdoing
ABHOR: find repugnant
ABYDOS: an ancient Greek colony on the Asiatic side of the Dardanelles; scene of the legend of Hero and Leander
ABIENT: characterized by avoidance or withdrawal
ABIES: true firs
ABYSS: a bottomless gulf or pit; any unfathomable (or apparently unfathomable) cavity or chasm or void extending below (often used figuratively)
ABJECT: 1. of the most contemptible kind. 2. most unfortunate or miserable. 3. showing utter resignation or hopelessness. 4. showing humiliation or submissiveness. 
ABJURE: formally reject or disavow a formerly held belief, usually under pressure
ABKHAZ: 1. of or relating to Abkazia or its people or their language. 2. an autonomous province of Georgia on the Black Sea; a strong independence movement has resulted in much instability. 3. Circassian people living east of the Black Sea. 
ABLATE: 1. wear away through erosion or vaporization. 2. remove an organ or bodily structure. 
ABLAUT: a vowel whose quality or length is changed to indicate linguistic distinctions (such as sing sang sung song)
ABLAZE: 1. keenly excited (especially sexually) or indicating excitement. 2. lighted up by or as by fire or flame. 3. resembling flame in brilliance or color. 4. lighted with red light as if with flames. 
ABLE: 1. (usually followed by `to') having the necessary means or skill or know-how or authority to do something. 2. have the skills and qualifications to do things well. 3. having inherent physical or mental ability or capacity. 4. having a strong healthy body. 
ABLOOM: bursting into flower
ABNAKI: 1. of or relating to the Abnakis or their language. 2. the Algonquian language spoken by the Abnaki and Penobscot. 
ABOARD: 1. on a ship, train, plane or other vehicle. 2. on first or second or third base. 3. side by side. 4. part of a group. 
ABOHM: a unit of resistance equal to a billionth of an ohm
ABORAD: away from the mouth or oral region
ABORAL: opposite to or away from the mouth
ABORT: 1. terminate before completion. 2. cease development, die, and be aborted. 3. terminate a pregnancy by undergoing an abortion. 
ABOUND: 1. be abundant or plentiful; exist in large quantities. 2. be in a state of movement or action. 
ABOUT: 1. on the move. 2. all around or on all sides. 3. in the area or vicinity. 4. used of movement to or among many different places or in no particular direction. 5. in or to a reversed position or direction. 6. in rotation or succession. 7. (of actions or states) slightly short of or not quite accomplished; all but. 
ABOVE: 1. at an earlier place. 2. in or to a place that is higher. 
ABRADE: wear away
ABROAD: to or in a foreign country
ABRUPT: 1. marked by sudden changes in subject and sharp transitions. 2. exceedingly sudden and unexpected. 3. extremely steep. 4. surprisingly and unceremoniously brusque in manner. 
ABSENT: 1. not being in a specified place. 2. lost in thought; showing preoccupation. 
ABSORB: 1. become imbued. 2. take up mentally. 3. take up, as of debts or payments. 4. take in, also metaphorically. 5. cause to become one with. 6. suck or take up or in. 7. assimilate or take in. 8. consume all of one's attention or time. 
ABSURD: 1. inconsistent with reason or logic or common sense. 2. incongruous; inviting ridicule. 
ABUKIR: a bay on the Mediterranean Sea in northern Egypt
ABULIA: a loss of will power
ABULIC: suffering from abulia; showing abnormal inability to act or make decisions
ABUSE: 1. a rude expression intended to offend or hurt. 2. use foul or abusive language towards. 3. use wrongly or improperly or excessively. 
ABUSED: 1. used improperly or excessively especially drugs. 2. subjected to cruel treatment. 
ABUSER: someone who abuses
ABUZZ: noisy like the sound of a bee
ABVOLT: a unit of potential equal to one-hundred-millionth of a volt
ABWATT: a power unit equal to the power dissipated when 1 abampere flows across a potential difference of 1 abvolt (one ten-thousandth of a milliwatt)
ACACIA: any of various spiny trees or shrubs of the genus Acacia
ACADIA: the French-speaking part of the Canadian Maritime Provinces
ACARID: very small free-living arachnid that is parasitic on animals or plants; related to ticks
ACARUS: any of several mites of the order Acarina
ACCEDE: take on duties or office
ACCENT: 1. distinctive manner of oral expression. 2. a diacritical mark used to indicate stress or placed above a vowel to indicate a special pronunciation. 
ACCEPT: 1. consider or hold as true. 2. receive willingly something given or offered. 3. give an affirmative reply to; respond favorably to. 4. react favorably to; consider right and proper. 5. admit into a group or community. 6. tolerate or accommodate oneself to. 7. be designed to hold or take. 8. receive (a report) officially, as from a committee. 9. be sexually responsive to, used of a female domesticated mammal. 
ACCESS: 1. reach or gain access to. 2. a way of entering or leaving. 3. a code (a series of characters or digits) that must be entered in some way (typed or dialed or spoken) to get the use of something (a telephone line or a computer or a local area network etc.). 4. (computer science) the operation of reading or writing stored information. 5. the act of approaching or entering. 6. obtain or retrieve from a storage device; as of information on a computer. 
ACCORD: 1. allow to have. 2. sympathetic compatibility. 
ACCRA: the capital and largest city of Ghana with a deep-water port
ACCRUE: 1. grow by addition. 2. come into the possession of. 
ACCUSE: bring an accusation against; level a charge against
ACE: 1. score an ace against. 2. play (a hole) in one stroke. 3. a serve that the receiver is unable to reach. 4. serve an ace against (someone). 5. of the highest quality. 
ACER: type genus of the Aceraceae; trees or shrubs having winged fruit
ACERB: 1. sour or bitter in taste. 2. harsh or corrosive in tone. 
ACETAL: any organic compound formed by adding alcohol molecules to aldehyde molecules
ACETIC: relating to or containing acetic acid
ACETYL: the organic group of acetic acid (CH3CO-)
ACETIN: any of three liquid acetates that are formed when acetic acid and glycerin are heated together
ACETUM: a dilute solution of acetic acid that is used as a solvent (e.g. for a drug)
ACHAEA: a region of ancient Greece on the north coast of the Peloponnese
ACHE: 1. a dull persistent (usually moderately intense) pain. 2. have a desire for something or someone who is not present. 3. be the source of pain. 
ACHENE: small dry indehiscent fruit with the seed distinct from the fruit wall
ACHING: causing a dull and steady pain
ACHIRA: canna grown especially for its edible rootstock from which arrowroot starch is obtained
ACHRAS: tropical trees having papery leaves and large fruit
ACID: 1. any of various water-soluble compounds having a sour taste and capable of turning litmus red and reacting with a base to form a salt. 2. street name for lysergic acid diethylamide. 3. having the characteristics of an acid. 
ACIDIC: 1. being or containing an acid; of a solution having an excess of hydrogen atoms (having a pH of less than 7). 2. being sour to the taste. 
ACYL: any group or radical of the form RCO- where R is an organic group
ACINAR: 1. pertaining to one of the small sacs (as in a compound gland). 2. pertaining to the individual parts making up an aggregate fruit like a blackberry. 
ACINUS: 1. one of the small drupes making up an aggregate or multiple fruit like a blackberry. 2. one of the small sacs or saclike dilations in a compound gland. 
ACKEE: red pear-shaped tropical fruit with poisonous seeds; flesh is poisonous when unripe or overripe
ACME: the highest level or degree attainable; the highest stage of development
ACNE: an inflammatory disease involving the sebaceous glands of the skin; characterized by papules or pustules or comedones
ACNED: (of complexion) blemished by imperfections of the skin
ACOLD: of persons; feeling cold
ACOREA: absence of the pupil in an eye
ACORN: fruit of the oak tree: a smooth thin-walled nut in a woody cup-shaped base
ACORUS: sweet flags; sometimes placed in subfamily Acoraceae
ACQUIT: pronounce not guilty of criminal charges
ACRE: 1. a unit of area (4840 square yards) used in English-speaking countries. 2. a territory of western Brazil bordering on Bolivia and Peru. 3. a town and port in northwestern Israel in the eastern Mediterranean. 
ACROSS: 1. to the opposite side. 2. transversely. 
ACT: 1. perform an action, or work out or perform (an action). 2. behave in a certain manner; show a certain behavior; conduct or comport oneself. 3. play a role or part. 4. discharge one's duties. 5. pretend to have certain qualities or state of mind. 6. be suitable for theatrical performance. 7. be engaged in an activity, often for no particular purpose other than pleasure. 8. perform on a stage or theater. 
ACTAEA: baneberry
ACTIN: one of the proteins into which actomyosin can be split; can exist in either a globular or a fibrous form
ACTING: serving temporarily especially as a substitute
ACTION: 1. institute legal proceedings against; file a suit against. 2. the state of being active. 3. the series of events that form a plot. 4. the trait of being active and energetic and forceful. 5. the operating part that transmits power to a mechanism. 6. an act by a government body or supranational organization. 7. the most important or interesting work or activity in a specific area or field. 
ACTIUM: 1. an ancient town on a promontory in western Greece. 2. the naval battle in which Antony and Cleopatra were defeated by Octavian's fleet under Agrippa in 31 BC. 
ACTIVE: 1. disposed to take action or effectuate change. 2. tending to become more severe or wider in scope. 3. engaged in or ready for military or naval operations. 4. taking part in an activity. 5. characterized by energetic activity. 6. exerting influence or producing a change or effect. 7. full of activity or engaged in continuous activity. 8. in operation. 9. (of the sun) characterized by an increased occurrence of sunspots and flares and radio emissions. 10. expressing that the subject of the sentence has the semantic function of actor: "Hemingway favors active constructions". 11. (used of verbs (e.g. `to run') and participial adjectives (e.g. `running' in `running water')) expressing action rather than a state of being. 12. (of e.g. volcanos) capable of erupting. 13. (of e.g. volcanos) erupting or liable to erupt. 14. engaged in full-time work. 
ACTOR: 1. a theatrical performer. 2. a person who acts and gets things done. 
ACTUAL: 1. presently existing in fact and not merely potential or possible. 2. taking place in reality; not pretended or imitated. 3. being or reflecting the essential or genuine character of something. 4. existing in act or fact. 5. being or existing at the present moment. 
ACUATE: ending in a sharp point
ACUITY: sharpness of vision; the visual ability to resolve fine detail (usually measured by a Snellen chart)
ACULEA: small spiny outgrowth on the wings of certain insects
ACUMEN: a tapering point
ACUTE: 1. having or experiencing a rapid onset and short but severe course. 2. extremely sharp or intense. 3. having or demonstrating ability to recognize or draw fine distinctions. 4. of an angle; less than 90 degrees. 5. of critical importance and consequence. 
ADAGIO: 1. slowly. 2. a slow section of a pas de deux requiring great skill and strength by the dancers. 
ADALIA: genus of ladybugs
ADAM: 1. (Old Testament) in Judeo-Christian mythology; the first man and the husband of Eve and the progenitor of the human race. 2. Scottish architect who designed many public buildings in England and Scotland (1728-1792). 3. street names for methylenedioxymethamphetamine. 
ADANA: a city in southern Turkey on the Seyhan River
ADAPA: a Babylonian demigod or first man (sometimes identified with Adam)
ADAPID: extinct small mostly diurnal lower primates that fed on leaves and fruit; abundant in North America and Europe 30 to 50 million years ago; their descendents probably include the lemurs; some authorities consider them ancestral to anthropoids but others consider them only cousins
ADAPT: make fit for, or change to suit a new purpose
ADAR: the sixth month of the civil year; the twelfth month of the ecclesiastic year in the Jewish calendar (in February and March)
ADD: 1. make an addition (to); join or combine or unite with others; increase the quality, quantity, size or scope of. 2. state or say further. 3. make an addition by combining numbers. 4. constitute an addition. 
ADDAX: large antelope with lightly spiraled horns of desert regions of northern Africa
ADDEND: a number that is added to another number (the augend)
ADDER: 1. a person who adds numbers. 2. a machine that adds numbers. 3. small terrestrial viper common in northern Eurasia. 
ADDICT: 1. to cause (someone or oneself) to become dependent (on something, especially a narcotic drug). 2. someone who is physiologically dependent on a substance; abrupt deprivation of the substance produces withdrawal symptoms. 
ADDLE: 1. mix up or confuse. 2. become rotten. 
ADDLED: 1. (of eggs) no longer edible. 2. confused and vague; used especially of thinking. 
ADDUCE: advance evidence for
ADDUCT: draw a limb towards the body
ADEN: an important port of Yemen; located on the Gulf of Aden; its strategic location has made it a major trading center of southern Arabia since ancient times
ADEPT: having or showing knowledge and skill and aptitude
ADHERE: 1. be compatible or in accordance with. 2. follow through or carry out a plan without deviation. 3. be a devoted follower or supporter. 4. stick to firmly. 
ADIENT: characterized by acceptance or approach
ADIEU: a farewell remark
ADIGE: a river in northern Italy that flows southeast into the Adriatic Sea
ADIT: a nearly horizontal passage from the surface into a mine
ADITYA: one of 7 to 12 sons of Aditi; Hindu gods of celestial light
ADJOIN: attach or add
ADJURE: command solemnly
ADJUST: 1. alter or regulate so as to achieve accuracy or conform to a standard. 2. adapt or conform oneself to new or different conditions. 3. make correspondent or conformable. 4. decide how much is to be paid on an insurance claim. 
AD-LIB: 1. with little or no preparation or forethought. 2. said or done without having been planned or written in advance. 
ADMASS: the segment of the public that is easily influenced by mass media (chiefly British)
ADMIRE: 1. feel admiration for. 2. look at with admiration. 
ADMIT: 1. declare to be true or admit the existence or reality or truth of. 2. allow to enter; grant entry to. 3. allow participation in or the right to be part of; permit to exercise the rights, functions, and responsibilities of. 4. afford possibility. 5. give access or entrance to. 6. serve as a means of entrance. 
ADMIX: mix or blend
ADNATE: of unlike parts or organs; growing closely attached
ADNEXA: accessory or adjoining anatomical parts or appendages to an organ (especially of the embryo)
ADNOUN: an adjective used as a noun
ADOBE: 1. the clay from which adobe bricks are made. 2. sun-dried brick; used in hot dry climates. 
ADOBO: a dish of marinated vegetables and meat or fish; served with rice
ADONIC: 1. or relating to or like Adonis. 2. having a rhythm consisting of a dactyl followed by a spondee or a trochee. 
ADONIS: 1. any handsome young man. 2. annual or perennial herbs. 3. (Greek mythology) a handsome youth loved by both Aphrodite and Persephone. 
ADOPT: 1. choose and follow; as of theories, ideas, policies, strategies or plans. 2. take up and practice as one's own. 3. take into one's family. 
ADORE: love intensely
ADORED: regarded with deep or rapturous love (especially as if for a god)
ADRIAN: English physiologist who conducted research into the function of neurons; 1st baron of Cambridge (1889-1997)
ADRIFT: 1. floating freely; not anchored. 2. off course, wandering aimlessly. 
ADROIT: quick or skillful or adept in action or thought
ADSORB: accumulate (liquids or gases) on the surface
ADULT: 1. (of animals) fully developed. 2. any mature animal. 
ADUST: 1. dried out by heat or excessive exposure to sunlight. 2. burned brown by the sun. 
ADVECT: convey by horizontal mass movement of a fluid
ADVENT: 1. arrival that has been awaited (especially of something momentous). 2. the season including the four Sundays preceding Christmas. 
ADVERB: 1. the word class that qualifies verbs or clauses. 2. a word that modifies something other than a noun. 
ADVICE: a proposal for an appropriate course of action
ADVISE: inform (somebody) of something
ADZ: an edge tool used to cut and shape wood
AECIAL: of or belonging to an aecium
AECIUM: fruiting body of some rust fungi bearing chains of aeciospores
AEDES: yellow-fever mosquitos
AEGEAN: 1. of or relating to or characteristic of the prehistoric Aegean civilization. 2. of or relating to or bordering the Aegean Sea. 
AEGINA: 1. an island in the Aegean Sea in the Saronic Gulf. 2. small medusa. 
AENEAS: a mythical Greek warrior who was a leader on the Trojan side of the Trojan War; hero of the Aeneid
AENEID: an epic in Latin by Virgil; tells the adventures of Aeneas after the Trojan War; provides an illustrious historical background for the Roman Empire
AEOLIC: the dialect of Ancient Greek spoken in Thessaly and Boeotia and Aeolis
AEOLIS: an ancient coastal region of northwestern Asia Minor (including Lesbos) where the Aeolians founded several cities around 1100 BC
AEOLUS: god of the winds in ancient mythology
AERIAL: existing or living or growing or operating in the air
AERIE: 1. the lofty nest of a bird of prey (such as a hawk or eagle). 2. any habitation at a high altitude. 
AEROBE: an organism (especially a bacterium) that requires air or free oxygen for life
AESIR: (Norse mythology) the chief race of gods living at Asgard
AESOP: Greek author of fables (circa 620-560 BC)
AETHER: personification of the sky or upper air breathed by the Olympians; son of Erebus and night or of Chaos and darkness
AFAR: (old-fashioned) at or from or to a great distance; far
AFEARD: a pronunciation of afraid
AFFAIR: 1. a usually secretive or illicit sexual relationship. 2. a vaguely specified social event. 
AFFECT: 1. have an effect upon. 2. act physically on; have an effect upon. 3. have an emotional or cognitive impact upon. 
AFFINE: (mathematics) of or pertaining to the geometry of affine transformations
AFFIRM: 1. to declare or affirm solemnly and formally as true. 2. say yes to. 
AFFIX: 1. attach to. 2. attach or become attached to a stem word. 
AFFORD: 1. be able to spare or give up. 2. have the financial means to do something or buy something. 3. afford access to. 
AFFRAY: 1. noisy quarrel. 2. a noisy fight. 
AFGHAN: 1. a blanket knitted or crocheted in strips or squares; sometimes used as a shawl. 2. a native or inhabitant of Afghanistan. 
AFIELD: 1. far away from home or one's usual surroundings. 2. in or into a field (especially a field of battle). 3. off the subject; beyond the point at issue. 
AFLARE: streaming or flapping or spreading wide as if in a current of air
AFLOAT: 1. borne on the water; floating. 2. covered with water. 
AFOOT: 1. on foot; walking. 2. currently in progress. 
AFOUL: especially of a ship's lines etc
AFRAID: 1. filled with fear or apprehension. 2. filled with regret or concern; used often to soften an unpleasant statement. 3. feeling worry or concern or insecurity. 4. having feelings of aversion or unwillingness. 
AFRESH: again but in a new or different way
AFRICA: the second largest continent; located to the south of Europe and bordered to the west by the South Atlantic and to the east by the Indian Ocean
AFRO: a rounded thickly curled hairdo
AFT: at or near or toward the stern of a ship or tail of an airplane
AFTER: 1. located farther aft. 2. behind or in the rear. 
AGA: title for a civil or military leader (especially in Turkey)
AGAIN: anew
AGAL: a cord (usually of goat's hair) that Arabs (especially Bedouins) wind around their heads to hold down the kaffiyeh
AGAMA: small terrestrial lizard of warm regions of the Old World
AGAMIC: (of reproduction) not involving the fusion of male and female gametes in reproduction
AGAMID: a lizard of the family Agamidae
AGAPE: 1. with the mouth wide open as in wonder or awe. 2. selfless love of one person for another without sexual implications (especially love that is spiritual in nature). 3. a religious meal shared as a sign of love and fellowship. 
AGAR: 1. any culture medium that uses agar as the gelling agent. 2. a colloidal extract of algae; used especially in culture media and as a gelling agent in foods. 
AGARIC: 1. fungus used in the preparation of punk for fuses. 2. a saprophytic fungus of the order Agaricales having an umbrellalike cap with gills on the underside. 
AGATE: an impure form of quartz consisting of banded chalcedony; used as a gemstone and for making mortars and pestles
AGAVE: tropical American plants with basal rosettes of fibrous sword-shaped leaves and flowers in tall spikes; some cultivated for ornament or for fiber
AGAZE: (used of eyes) open and fixed as if in fear or wonder
AGE: 1. begin to seem older; get older. 2. make older. 
AGED: 1. advanced in years; (`aged' is pronounced as two syllables). 2. at an advanced stage of erosion (pronounced as one syllable). 3. having attained a specific age; (`aged' is pronounced as one syllable). 4. of wines, fruit, cheeses; having reached a desired or final condition; (`aged' pronounced as one syllable). 5. (used of tobacco) aging as a preservative process (`aged' is pronounced as one syllable). 
AGEISM: discrimination against middle-aged and elderly people
AGENCY: 1. an administrative unit of government. 2. a business that serves other businesses. 3. the state of being in action or exerting power. 
AGENDA: 1. a temporally organized plan for matters to be attended to. 2. a list of matters to be taken up (as at a meeting). 
AGENT: 1. an active and efficient cause; capable of producing a certain effect. 2. a representative who acts on behalf of other persons or organizations. 3. a substance that exerts some force or effect. 4. a businessman who buys or sells for another in exchange for a commission. 5. any agent or representative of a federal agency or bureau. 
AGGRO: (informal British usage) aggravation or aggression
AGHAN: the ninth month of the Hindu calendar
AGHAST: struck with fear, dread, or consternation
AGILE: 1. moving quickly and lightly. 2. mentally quick. 
AGING: 1. the organic process of growing older and showing the effects of increasing age. 2. growing old. 
AGIO: a fee charged for exchanging currencies
AGLAIA: (Greek mythology) one of the three Graces
AGLEAM: bright with a steady but subdued shining
AGLET: 1. metal or plastic sheath over the end of a shoelace or ribbon. 2. ornamental tagged cord or braid on the shoulder of a uniform. 
AGLOW: softly bright or radiant
AGNATE: related on the father's side
AGNI: (Sanskrit) Hindu god of fire in ancient and traditional India; one of the three chief deities of the Vedas
AGO: in the past
AGOG: highly excited
AGON: a festivity in ancient Greece at which competitors contended for prizes
AGONAL: pertaining to or associated with agony (especially death agonies)
AGONY: 1. intense feelings of suffering; acute mental or physical pain. 2. a state of acute pain. 
AGORA: 1. 100 agorot equal 1 shekel in Israel. 2. the marketplace in ancient Greece. 3. a place of assembly for the people in ancient Greece. 
AGOUTI: agile long-legged rabbit-sized rodent of Central America and South America and the West Indies; valued as food
AGRA: a city in northern India; former capital of the Mogul empire; site of the Taj Mahal
AGREE: 1. be in accord; be in agreement. 2. consent or assent to a condition, or agree to do something. 3. show grammatical agreement. 4. be agreeable or suitable. 5. achieve harmony of opinion, feeling, or purpose. 
AGREED: united by being of the same opinion
AGUA: largest known toad species; native to Central America; valuable destroyer of insect pests
AGUE: 1. a fit of shivering or shaking. 2. successive stages of chills and fever that is a symptom of malaria. 
AGUISH: affected by ague
AHAB: according to the Old Testament he was a pagan king of Israel and husband of Jezebel (9th century BC)
AHEAD: 1. at or in the front. 2. toward the future; forward in time. 3. in a forward direction. 4. ahead of time; in anticipation. 5. to a more advanced or advantageous position. 6. to a different or a more advanced time (meaning advanced either toward the present or toward the future). 7. leading or ahead in a competition. 
AHIMSA: a Buddhist and Hindu and especially Jainist doctrine holding that all forms of life are sacred and urging the avoidance of violence
AHORSE: traveling on horseback
AID: 1. a resource. 2. the activity of contributing to the fulfillment of a need or furtherance of an effort or purpose. 3. money to support a worthy person or cause. 
AIDE: someone who acts as assistant
AIDS: a serious (often fatal) disease of the immune system transmitted through blood products especially by sexual contact or contaminated needles
AIKIDO: a Japanese martial art employing principles similar to judo
AIL: be ill or unwell
AILING: somewhat ill or prone to illness
AIM: 1. propose or intend. 2. the action of directing something at an object. 3. point or cause to go (blows, weapons, or objects such as photographic equipment) towards. 4. direct (a remark) toward an intended goal. 
AIOLI: garlic mayonnaise
AIR: 1. a mixture of gases (especially oxygen) required for breathing; the stuff that the wind consists of. 2. be broadcast. 3. broadcast over the airwaves, as in radio or television. 4. once thought to be one of four elements composing the universe (Empedocles). 5. medium for radio and television broadcasting. 6. expose to warm or heated air, so as to dry. 
AYR: a port in southwestern Scotland
AIRBUS: a subsonic jet airliner operated over short distances
AIRE: a river in northern England that flows southeast through West Yorkshire
AIRED: open to or abounding in fresh air
AIRY: 1. not practical or realizable; speculative. 2. having little or no perceptible weight; so light as to resemble air. 
AIRING: a short excursion (a walk or ride) in the open air
AIRS: affected manners intended to impress others
AISLE: 1. a long narrow passage (as in a cave or woods). 2. passageway between seating areas as in an auditorium or passenger vehicle or between areas of shelves of goods as in stores. 3. part of a church divided laterally from the nave proper by rows of pillars or columns. 
AYTHYA: canvasback; redhead; pochard; etc.
AIX: wood duck and mandarin duck
AJAR: slightly open
AJAX: a mythical Greek hero; a warrior who fought against Troy in the Iliad
AJUGA: bugle
AKEE: widely cultivated in tropical and subtropical regions for its fragrant flowers and colorful fruits; introduced in Jamaica by William Bligh
AKIMBO: with hands on hips and elbows extending outward
AKIN: 1. similar in quality or character. 2. related by blood. 
ALA: 1. a flat wing-shaped process or winglike part of an organism. 2. a wing of an insect. 
ALALIA: paralysis of the vocal cords resulting in an inability to speak
ALAMO: a siege and massacre at a mission in San Antonio in 1836; Mexican forces under Santa Anna besieged and massacred American rebels who were fighting to make Texas independent of Mexico
ALAR: 1. a chemical sprayed on fruit trees to regulate their growth so the entire crop can be harvested at one time. 2. having or resembling wings. 
ALARIC: king of the Visigoths who captured Rome in 410 (370-410)
ALARM: 1. fear resulting from the awareness of danger. 2. warn or arouse to a sense of danger or call to a state of preparedness. 3. an automatic signal (usually a sound) warning of danger. 
ALASKA: a state in northwestern North America; the 49th state admitted to the union
ALATE: (of seeds or insects) having winglike extensions
ALAUDA: type genus of the Alaudidae: skylarks
ALB: a white linen liturgical vestment with sleeves; worn by priests
ALBANY: 1. state capital of New York; located in eastern New York State on the west bank of the Hudson river. 2. a town in southwest Georgia; processing center for peanuts and pecans. 
ALBEDO: the ratio of reflected to incident light
ALBINO: a person with congenital albinism: white hair and milky skin; eyes are usually pink
ALBION: archaic name for England or Great Britain; used poetically
ALBITE: a widely distributed feldspar that forms rocks
ALBUCA: any of various plants of the genus Albuca having large clusters of pale yellow flowers; South Africa
ALBUGO: type genus of the Albuginaceae; fungi causing white rusts
ALBUM: 1. one or more recordings issued together; originally released on 12-inch phonograph records (usually with attractive record covers) and later on cassette audiotape and compact disc. 2. a book of blank pages with pockets or envelopes; for organizing photographs or stamp collections etc. 
ALCA: type genus of the Alcidae comprising solely the razorbill
ALCAIC: verse in the meter used in Greek and Latin poetry consisting of strophes of 4 tetrametric lines; reputedly invented by Alcaeus
ALCEDO: type genus of the Alcedinidae
ALCES: elk or moose
ALCOVE: a small recess opening off a larger room
ALDER: 1. wood of any of various alder trees; resistant to underwater rot; used for bridges etc. 2. north temperate shrubs or trees having toothed leaves and conelike fruit; bark is used in tanning and dyeing and the wood is rot-resistant. 
ALDOL: an oily colorless liquid obtained by the condensation of two molecules of acetaldehyde; contains an alcohol group (-OH) and an aldehyde group (-CHO)
ALDOSE: a monosaccharide sugar that contains the aldehyde group or is hemiacetal
ALE: a general name for beer made with a top fermenting yeast; in some of the United States an ale is (by law) a brew of more than 4% alcohol by volume
ALEE: on or toward the lee
ALERT: 1. engaged in or accustomed to close observation. 2. quick and energetic. 3. mentally perceptive and responsive. 
ALEUT: 1. a member of the people inhabiting the Aleutian Islands and southwestern Alaska. 2. a community of Native Americans who speak an Eskimo-Aleut language and inhabit the Aleutian Islands and southwestern Alaska. 3. the language spoken by the Aleut. 
ALEXIC: of or relating to or symptomatic of alexia
ALFRED: king of Wessex; defeated the Vikings and encouraged writing in English (849-899)
ALGA: primitive chlorophyll-containing mainly aquatic eukaryotic organisms lacking true stems and roots and leaves
ALGAL: of or relating to alga
ALGID: chilly
ALGIN: a gum used especially as a thickener or emulsifier
ALGOID: of or resembling algae
ALGOL: 1. the second brightest star in Perseus; the first known eclipsing binary. 2. (from a combination of ALGOrithmic and Language); a programming language used to express computer programs as algorithms. 
ALIAS: as known or named at another time or place
ALIBI: exonerate by means of an alibi
ALIEN: 1. not contained in or deriving from the essential nature of something. 2. being or from or characteristic of another place or part of the world. 
ALIGHT: 1. to come to rest, settle. 2. come down. 
ALIGN: 1. place in a line or arrange so as to be parallel or straight. 2. be or come into adjustment with. 3. align oneself with a group or a way of thinking. 4. bring (components or parts) into proper or desirable coordination correlation. 
ALIYAH: 1. (Judaism) the honor of being called up to the reading desk in the synagogue to read from the Torah. 2. (Judaism) immigration of Jews to Israel. 
ALIKE: 1. equally. 2. in a like manner. 
A-LINE: women's clothing that has a fitted top and a flared skirt that is widest at the hemline
ALISMA: small genus of aquatic or semiaquatic plants
ALYTES: midwife toads
ALIVE: 1. possessing life. 2. (often followed by `with') full of life and spirit. 3. (followed by `to' or `of') aware of. 4. capable of erupting. 
ALKALI: a mixture of soluble salts found in arid soils and some bodies of water; detrimental to agriculture
ALKENE: any unsaturated aliphatic hydrocarbon
ALKYD: a durable synthetic resin widely used in adhesives and paints
ALKYL: any of a series of univalent groups of the general formula CnH2n+1 derived from aliphatic hydrocarbons
ALL: 1. quantifier; used with either mass or count nouns to indicate the whole number or amount of or every one of a class. 2. completely given to or absorbed by. 
ALLAH: Muslim name for the one and only God
ALLEGE: report or maintain
ALLEY: a narrow street with walls on both sides
ALLELE: (genetics) either of a pair (or series) of alternative forms of a gene that can occupy the same locus on a particular chromosome and that control the same character
ALLY: 1. become an ally or associate, as by a treaty or marriage. 2. an associate who provides cooperation or assistance. 
ALLIED: 1. related by common characteristics or ancestry. 2. of or relating to or denoting the Allies in World War II. 3. of or relating to or denoting the Allies in World War I. 4. united in a confederacy or league. 5. joined by treaty or agreement. 
ALLIES: 1. the alliance of nations that fought the Axis in World War II and which (with subsequent additions) signed the charter of the United Nations in 1945. 2. in World War I the alliance of Great Britain and France and Russia and all the other nations that became allied with them in opposing the Central Powers. 3. an alliance of nations joining together to fight a common enemy. 
ALLYL: the univalent unsaturated organic radical C3H5; derived from propylene
ALLIUM: large genus of perennial and biennial pungent bulbous plants: garlic; leek; onion; chive; sometimes placed in family Alliaceae as the type genus
ALLOY: 1. a mixture containing two or more metallic elements or metallic and nonmetallic elements usually fused together or dissolving into each other when molten. 2. make an alloy of. 
ALLOW: 1. let have. 2. give or assign a resource to a particular person or cause. 3. allow or plan for a certain possibility; concede the truth or validity of something. 4. grant as a discount or in exchange. 5. allow the presence of or allow (an activity) without opposing or prohibiting. 
ALLUDE: make a more or less disguised reference to
ALLURE: the power to entice or attract through personal charm
ALMOND: 1. small bushy deciduous tree native to Asia and North Africa having pretty pink blossoms and highly prized edible nuts enclosed in a hard green hull; cultivated in southern Australia and California. 2. oval-shaped edible seed of the almond tree. 
ALMS: money or goods contributed to the poor
ALNICO: trade name for an alloy used to make high-energy permanent magnets; contains aluminum and iron and nickel plus cobalt or copper or titanium
ALNUS: alders
ALOE: succulent plants having rosettes of leaves usually with fiber like hemp and spikes of showy flowers; found chiefly in Africa
ALOES: a purgative made from the leaves of aloe
ALOFT: 1. at or on or to the masthead or upper rigging of a ship. 2. upward. 3. at or to great height; high up in or into the air. 4. in the higher atmosphere above the earth. 
ALOHA: an acknowledgment that can be used to say hello or goodbye (aloha is Hawaiian and ciao is Italian)
ALONE: 1. isolated from others. 2. without anybody else or anything else. 3. exclusive of anyone or anything else. 4. radically distinctive and without equal. 
ALONG: 1. with a forward motion. 2. in accompaniment or as a companion. 3. to a more advanced state. 4. in addition (usually followed by `with'). 5. in line with a length or direction (often followed by `by' or `beside'). 
ALONSO: Cuban dancer and choreographer (born in 1921)
ALOOF: in an aloof manner
ALOSA: shad
ALOUD: using the voice; not silently
ALP: any high mountain
ALPACA: 1. wool of the alpaca. 2. a thin glossy fabric made of the wool of the Lama pacos, or made of a rayon or cotton imitation of that wool. 3. domesticated llama with long silky fleece; believed to be a domesticated variety of the guanaco. 
ALPENA: a town in northern Michigan on an arm of Lake Huron
ALPHA: 1. first in order of importance. 2. early testing stage of a software or hardware product. 
ALPINE: 1. relating to or characteristic of alps. 2. relating to the Alps and their inhabitants. 3. living or growing above the timber line. 
ALPS: a large mountain system in south-central Europe; scenic beauty and winter sports make them a popular tourist attraction
ALSACE: a region of northeastern France famous for its wines
ALTAIC: 1. of or pertaining to or written in Altaic. 2. a group of related languages spoken in Asia and southeastern Europe. 
ALTAIR: double star 15.7 light years from Earth; the brightest star in the Aquila constellation
ALTAR: 1. the table in Christian churches where communion is given. 2. a raised structure on which gifts or sacrifices to a god are made. 
ALTER: 1. make an alteration to. 2. remove the ovaries of. 
ALTHEA: any of various plants of the genus Althaea; similar to but having smaller flowers than genus Alcea
ALTO: 1. of or being the lowest female voice. 2. (of a musical instrument) the second highest instrument in a family of musical instruments. 3. the pitch range of the lowest female voice. 4. (of a musical instrument) second highest member of a group. 
ALULA: scalelike structure between the base of the wing and the halter of a two-winged fly
ALULAR: pertaining to alulae
ALUM: 1. a white crystalline double sulfate of aluminum: the ammonium double sulfate of aluminum. 2. a white crystalline double sulfate of aluminum: the potassium double sulfate of aluminum. 3. a double sulphate of aluminum and potassium that is used as an astringent (among other things). 
ALVINE: of or relating to the intestines
ALWAYS: 1. at all times; all the time and on every occasion. 2. at any time or in any event. 3. forever; throughout all time. 
AMAIN: 1. at full speed; with great haste. 2. with all your strength. 
AMATI: 1. Italian violin maker in Cremona; taught the craft to Guarneri and Stradivari (1596-1684). 2. a violin made by Nicolo Amati or a member of his family. 
AMAZE: affect with wonder
AMAZED: filled with the emotional impact of overwhelming surprise or shock
AMAZON: 1. a large strong and aggressive woman. 2. (Greek mythology) one of a nation of women warriors of Scythia (who burned off the right breast in order to use a bow and arrow more effectively). 3. a major South American river; arises in the Andes and flows eastward into the South Atlantic; the world's 2nd longest river (4000 miles). 4. mainly green tropical American parrots. 
AMBER: 1. of a medium to dark brownish yellow color. 2. a hard yellowish to brownish translucent fossil resin; used for jewelry. 
AMBLE: walk leisurely
AMBUSH: wait in hiding to attack
AMEBA: naked freshwater or marine or parasitic protozoa that form temporary pseudopods for feeding and locomotion
AMELIA: congenital absence of an arm or leg
AMEN: a primeval Egyptian personification of air and breath; worshipped especially at Thebes
AMEND: make amendments to
AMERCE: 1. punish with an arbitrary penalty. 2. punish by a fine imposed arbitrarily by the discretion of the court. 
AMHARA: a member of the Semitic speaking people of northern Ethiopia
AMIA: type genus of the Amiidae
AMIDE: any organic compound containing the group -CONH2
AMIGO: a friend or comrade
AMYL: a hydrocarbon radical that occurs in many organic compounds
AMINE: a compound derived from ammonia by replacing hydrogen atoms by univalent hydrocarbon radicals
AMINO: pertaining to or containing any of a group of organic compounds of nitrogen derived from ammonia
AMISH: an American follower of the Mennonite religion
AMISS: 1. not functioning properly. 2. in an improper or mistaken or unfortunate manner. 
AMITY: 1. a cordial disposition. 2. a state of friendship and cordiality. 
AMMAN: the capital and largest city of Jordan
AMMINE: a complex inorganic compound that contains ammonia molecules
AMMINO: pertaining to or characteristic of an ammine (an inorganic coordination compound of ammonia and a metallic salt)
AMNION: thin innermost membranous sac enclosing the developing embryo of higher vertebrates (reptiles, birds and mammals)
AMOK: 1. wildly; without self-control. 2. in a murderous frenzy. 
AMORA: one of a group of rabbis (active AD 250-500) who discussed the Mishnaic law in the law schools of Palestine and Mesopotamia where they explained and applied earlier teachings and whose discussions are recorded in the Talmud; they emphasized the study of Torah and the importance of personal action and the fulfillment of the commandments
AMORT: utterly cast down
AMOS: 1. a Hebrew shepherd and minor prophet. 2. an Old Testament book telling Amos's prophecies. 
AMOUNT: 1. the relative magnitude of something with reference to a criterion. 2. be tantamount or equivalent to. 
AMPERE: 1. a former unit of electric current (slightly smaller than the SI ampere). 2. the basic unit of electric current adopted under the Systeme International d'Unites. 
AMPLE: 1. more than enough in size or scope or capacity. 2. affording an abundant supply. 3. fairly large. 
AMPLY: 1. to an ample degree or in an ample manner. 2. sufficiently; more than adequately. 
AMUCK: frenzied as if possessed by a demon
AMULET: a trinket or piece of jewelry usually hung about the neck and thought to be a magical protection against evil or disease
AMUR: an Asian river between China and Russia; flows into the Sea of Okhotsk
AMUSE: 1. occupy in an agreeable, entertaining or pleasant fashion. 2. make (somebody) laugh. 
AMUSED: pleasantly occupied
ANA: 1. mother of the ancient Irish gods; sometimes identified with Danu. 2. a collection of anecdotes about a person or place. 
ANABAS: the type genus of the family Anabantidae; small fish that resemble perch
ANAL: 1. of or related to the anus. 2. a stage in psychosexual development when the child's interest is concentrated on the anal region; fixation at this stage is said to result in orderliness, meanness, stubbornness, compulsiveness, etc.. 
ANANAS: a genus of tropical American plants have sword-shaped leaves and a fleshy compound fruits composed of the fruits of several flowers (such as pineapples)
ANAS: type genus of the Anatidae: freshwater ducks
ANASA: squash bugs
ANCHOR: 1. fix firmly and stably. 2. secure a vessel with an anchor. 3. a television reporter who coordinates a broadcast to which several correspondents contribute. 
ANDEAN: relating to the Andes and their inhabitants
ANDES: a mountain range in South America running 5000 miles along the Pacific coast
ANDIRA: small genus of evergreen trees of tropical America and western Africa
ANDREW: (New Testament) disciple of Jesus; brother of Peter; patron saint of Scotland
ANEMIA: 1. a deficiency of red blood cells. 2. a lack of vitality. 3. genus of terrestrial or lithophytic ferns having pinnatifid fronds; chiefly of tropical America. 
ANEMIC: 1. lacking vigor or energy. 2. relating to anemia or suffering from anemia. 
ANERGY: 1. reduction or lack of an immune response to a specific antigen. 2. inactivity and lack of energy. 
ANGARA: a river in southeastern Siberia that flows northwest from Lake Baikal to become a tributary of the Yenisei River
ANGAS: a Chadic language spoken in northern Nigeria and closely related to Hausa
ANGEL: 1. spiritual being attendant upon God. 2. invests in a theatrical production. 3. the highest waterfall; has more than one leap; flow varies seasonally. 
ANGER: 1. make angry. 2. become angry. 
ANGINA: any disease of the throat or fauces marked by spasmodic attacks of intense suffocative pain
ANGLE: 1. move or proceed at an angle. 2. a member of a Germanic people who conquered England and merged with the Saxons and Jutes to become Anglo-Saxons. 3. fish with a hook. 
ANGLED: forming or set at an angle
ANGLER: 1. a scheming person; someone who schemes to gain an advantage. 2. a fisherman who uses a hook and line. 
ANGLIA: the Latin name for England
ANGOLA: a republic in southwestern Africa on the Atlantic Ocean; achieved independence from Portugal in 1975 and was the scene of civil war until 1990
ANGORA: 1. a domestic breed of goat raised for its long silky hair which is the true mohair. 2. domestic breed of rabbit with long white silky hair. 3. a long-haired breed of cat similar to the Persian cat. 
ANGRY: 1. feeling or showing anger. 2. (of the elements) as if showing violent anger. 3. severely inflamed and painful. 
ANGST: an acute but unspecific feeling of anxiety; usually reserved for philosophical anxiety about the world or about personal freedom
ANGUIS: type genus of the Anguidae: blindworms
ANHIMA: type genus of the Anhimidae; horned screamers
ANI: black tropical American cuckoo
ANY: to any degree or extent
ANYHOW: 1. used to indicate that a statement explains or supports a previous statement; anyhow, they're quiet"; anyway, it's gone"; in any case, there was a brief scuffle". 2. in any way whatsoever. 
ANIL: 1. a blue dye obtained from plants or made synthetically. 2. shrub of West Indies and South America that is a source of indigo dye. 
ANILE: of or like a feeble old woman
ANIMA: (Jungian psychology) the inner self (not the external persona) that is in touch with the unconscious
ANIMAL: marked by the appetites and passions of the body
ANIME: any of various resins or oleoresins
ANION: a negatively charged ion
ANISE: 1. native to Egypt but cultivated widely for its aromatic seeds and the oil from them used medicinally and as a flavoring in cookery. 2. liquorice-flavored seeds, used medicinally and in cooking and liquors. 
ANJOU: 1. a former province of western France in the Loire valley. 2. a pear with firm flesh and a green skin. 
ANKARA: the capital of Turkey; located in west-central Turkey; it was formerly known as Angora and is the home of Angora goats
ANKLE: a gliding joint between the distal ends of the tibia and fibula and the proximal end of the talus
ANKLET: 1. a shoe for a child or woman that has a strap around the ankle. 2. a sock that reaches just above the ankle. 3. an ornament worn around the ankle. 
ANKUS: an elephant goad with a sharp spike and a hook
ANNA: a former copper coin of Pakistan and India
ANNABA: a port city of northeastern Algeria near the Tunisian border
ANNALS: 1. reports of the work of a society or learned body etc. 2. a chronological account of events in successive years. 
ANNE: Queen of England and Scotland and Ireland; daughter if James II and the last of the Stuart monarchs; in 1707 she was the last English ruler to exercise the royal veto over parliament (1665-1714)
ANNEAL: bring to a desired consistency, texture, or hardness by a process of gradually heating and cooling
ANNEX: 1. take (territory) as if by conquest. 2. attach to. 
ANNOY: cause annoyance in; disturb, especially by minor irritations
ANNONA: type genus of the Annonaceae; tropical American trees or shrubs
ANNUAL: 1. completing its life cycle within a year. 2. occurring or payable every year. 
ANNUM: (Latin) year
ANNWFN: (Welsh mythology) the other world; land of fairies
ANOA: small buffalo of the Celebes having small straight horns
ANODE: 1. a positively charged electrode by which electrons leave an electrical device. 2. the negatively charged terminal of a voltaic cell or storage battery that supplies current. 
ANODIC: of or at or relating to an anode
ANOINT: 1. choose by or as if by divine intervention. 2. administer an oil or ointment to; often in a religious ceremony of blessing. 
ANOLIS: New World chameleons
ANOMIA: type genus of the family Anomiidae: saddle oysters
ANOMIE: 1. personal state of isolation and anxiety resulting from a lack of social control and regulation. 2. lack of moral standards in a society. 
ANON: 1. at another time. 2. (old-fashioned or informal) in a little while. 
ANOPIA: sightlessness (especially because of a structural defect in or the absence of an eye)
ANOXIA: severe hypoxia; absence of oxygen in inspired gases or in arterial blood or in the tissues
ANOXIC: relating to or marked by a severe deficiency of oxygen in tissues or organs
ANSELM: an Italian who was a Benedictine monk; was archbishop of Canterbury from 1093 to 1109; one of the founders of scholasticism; best known for his proof of the existence of God
ANSER: typical geese
ANSHAR: the Babylonian father of the gods; identified with Assyrian Ashur; in Sumerian the name signifies `the totality of the upper world'
ANSWER: 1. react verbally. 2. give the correct answer or solution to. 3. understand the meaning of. 4. give a defence or refutation of (a charge) or in (an argument). 5. respond to a signal. 6. be liable or accountable. 7. match or correspond. 8. be satisfactory for; meet the requirements of or serve the purpose of. 9. react to a stimulus or command. 
ANT: social insect living in organized colonies; characteristically the males and fertile queen have wings during breeding season; wingless sterile females are the workers
ANTE: place one's stake
ANTHEM: a song of devotion or loyalty (as to a nation or school)
ANTHER: the part of the stamen that contains pollen; usually borne on a stalk
ANTHUS: pipits
ANTI: not in favor of (an action or proposal etc.)
ANTIC: ludicrously odd
ANTLER: deciduous horn of a member of the deer family
ANTLIA: a faint constellation in the southern hemisphere near Hydra and Vela
ANTRUM: a natural cavity or hollow in a bone
ANTSY: nervous and unable to relax
ANUBIS: Egyptian god of tombs and ruler of the underworld; usually depicted as a man with the head of a jackal
ANURAN: relating to frogs and toads
ANUS: the excretory opening at the end of the alimentary canal
ANVIL: a heavy block of iron or steel on which hot metals are shaped by hammering
ANZIO: a town of central Italy on the Tyrrhenian Sea; the Allies established a beachhead at Anzio in World War II
AORIST: a verb tense in some languages (classical Greek and Sanskrit) expressing action (especially past action) without indicating its completion or continuation
AORTA: the large trunk artery that carries blood from the left ventricle of the heart to branch arteries
AORTAL: of or relating to the aorta
AOTUS: douroucoulis
AOUDAD: wild sheep of northern Africa
APACHE: 1. any member of Athapaskan tribes that migrated to the southwestern desert (from Arizona to Texas and south into Mexico); fought a losing battle from 1861 to 1886 with the United States and were resettled in Oklahoma. 2. a Parisian gangster. 3. the language of the Apache. 
APAR: South American armadillo with three bands of bony plates
APART: 1. separated or at a distance in place or position or time. 2. not taken into account or excluded from consideration. 3. away from another or others. 4. one from the other. 5. into parts or pieces. 
APATHY: 1. an absence of emotion or enthusiasm. 2. the trait of lacking enthusiasm for or interest in things generally. 
APC: a drug combination found in some over-the-counter headache remedies (aspirin and phenacetin and caffeine)
APE: imitate uncritically and in every aspect
APERCU: a short synopsis
APEREA: South American cavy; possibly ancestral to the domestic guinea pig
APERY: the act of mimicking; imitative behavior
APEX: the point on the celestial sphere toward which the sun and solar system appear to be moving relative to the fixed stars
APHID: any of various small plant-sucking insects
APHIS: type genus of the Aphididae: injurious to fruit trees and vegetables
APIA: the capital of Western Samoa
APIAN: relating to or having the characteristics of bees
APIARY: a shed containing a number of beehives
APICAL: situated at an apex
APIDAE: honeybees; carpenter bees; bumblebees
APIOS: twining perennial North American plants
APIS: type genus of the Apidae: honeybees
APISH: being or given to servile imitation
APIUM: celery
APLITE: light-colored and fine-grained granitic rock consisting chiefly of quartz and feldspars
APLOMB: great coolness and composure under strain
APNEA: transient cessation of respiration
APNEIC: of or relating to apnea
APODAL: (of snakes and eels) naturally footless
APOGEE: 1. a final climactic stage. 2. apoapsis in Earth orbit; the point in its orbit where a satellite is at the greatest distance from the Earth. 
APOGON: type genus of the Apogonidae
APOLLO: (Greek mythology) Greek god of light; god of prophecy and poetry and music and healing; son of Zeus and Leto; twin brother of Artemis
APPEAL: 1. request earnestly (something from somebody); ask for aid or protection. 2. (law) a legal proceeding in which the appellant resorts to a higher court for the purpose of obtaining a review of a lower court decision and a reversal of the lower court's judgment or the granting of a new trial. 3. take a court case to a higher court for review. 4. challenge (a decision). 
APPEAR: 1. come into sight or view. 2. be issued or published. 3. seem to be true, probable, or apparent. 4. come into being or existence, or appear on the scene. 5. appear as a character on stage or appear in a play, etc.. 6. present oneself formally, as before a (judicial) authority. 
APPEND: 1. add to the very end. 2. fix to; attach. 
APPLE: 1. fruit with red or yellow or green skin and sweet to tart crisp whitish flesh. 2. native Eurasian tree widely cultivated in many varieties for its firm rounded edible fruits. 
APPLY: 1. be pertinent or relevant or applicable. 2. ask (for something). 3. refer (a word or name) to a person or thing. 4. apply oneself to. 
APPOSE: place side by side or in close proximity
APPRO: an informal British abbreviation of approval
APRIL: the month following March and preceding May
APRON: 1. a garment of cloth or leather or plastic that is tied about the waist and worn to protect your clothing. 2. (golf) the part of the fairway leading onto the green. 3. a paved surface where aircraft stand while not being used. 
APSE: a domed or vaulted recess or projection on a building especially the east end of a church; usually contains the altar
APSU: father of the gods and consort of Tiamat
APT: 1. (usually followed by `to') naturally disposed toward. 2. at risk of or subject to experiencing something usually unpleasant. 3. mentally quick and resourceful. 
APUS: 1. a constellation in the polar region of the southern hemisphere near Octans. 2. type genus. 
AQUILA: 1. a constellation in the Milky Way near Cygnus; contains the star Altair. 2. the provincial capital of the Abruzzi region in central Italy. 3. a genus of Accipitridae. 
ARA: 1. a constellation in the southern hemisphere near Telescopium and Norma. 2. macaws. 
ARAB: a member of a Semitic people originally from the Arabian peninsula and surrounding territories who speaks Arabic and who inhabits much of the Middle East and northern Africa
ARABIC: relating to or characteristic of Arabs
ARABIS: annual to perennial woody herbs of temperate North America, Europe and Asia: rockcress
ARABLE: (of farmland) capable of being farmed productively
ARAGON: 1. French writer who generalized surrealism to literature (1897-1982). 2. a region of northeastern Spain; a former kingdom that united with Castile in 1479 to form Spain (after the marriage of Ferdinand V and Isabella I). 
ARALES: Araceae; Lemnaceae
ARALIA: any of various plants of the genus Aralia; often aromatic plants having compound leaves and small umbellate flowers
ARAMUS: genus of large brown long-billed wading birds found in warm swampy regions of the western hemisphere: courlan; limpkin
ARANEA: a genus of orb-weaving spiders including common garden spiders and barn spiders
ARARAT: the mountain peak that Noah's ark landed on as the waters of the great flood receded
ARAS: a river that rises in northeastern Turkey (near the source of the Euphrates) and flows generally eastward through Armenia to the Caspian Sea; ancient name was Araxes
ARAWAK: 1. a member of a widespread group of Amerindians living in northeastern South America. 2. a family of South American Indian languages spoken in northeastern South America. 
ARAWN: Celtic deity who was the lord of Annwfn (the other world or the land of fairies)
ARBOR: 1. tree (as opposed to shrub). 2. a framework that supports climbing plants. 
ARC: a continuous portion of a circle
ARCA: type genus of the family Arcidae: ark shells and blood clams
ARCADE: 1. a covered passageway with shops and stalls on either side. 2. a structure composed of a series of arches supported by columns. 
ARCANE: requiring secret or mysterious knowledge
ARCED: forming or resembling an arch
ARCH: 1. (used of behavior or attitude) characteristic of those who treat others with condescension. 2. expert in skulduggery. 3. naughtily or annoyingly playful. 4. (architecture) a masonry construction (usually curved) for spanning an opening and supporting the weight above it. 
ARCHED: constructed with or in the form of an arch or arches
ARCHER: a person who is expert in the use of a bow and arrow
ARCHIL: any of various lecanoras that yield the dye archil
ARCHLY: in_an_arch_manner; with playful slyness or roguishness
ARCO: (of instruments in the violin family) to be played with the bow
ARCTIC: 1. the regions to the north of the Arctic Circle centered on the North Pole. 2. extremely cold. 
ARCUS: a whitish deposit in the shape of an arc that is sometimes seen in the cornea
ARDEA: type genus of the Ardeidae: large New and Old World herons
ARDEB: a unit of dry measure used in Egypt
ARDENT: 1. characterized by intense emotion. 2. characterized by strong enthusiasm. 3. glowing or shining like fire. 
ARDOR: 1. a feeling of strong eagerness (usually in favor of a person or cause). 2. intense feeling of love. 3. feelings of great warmth and intensity. 
ARE: a unit of surface area equal to 100 square meters
AREA: 1. a particular geographical region of indefinite boundary (usually serving some special purpose or distinguished by its people or culture or geography). 2. a subject of study. 3. a part of an animal that has a special function or is supplied by a given artery or nerve. 4. a part of a structure having some specific characteristic or function. 5. the extent of a 2-dimensional surface enclosed within a boundary. 
AREAL: of or relating to or involving an area
ARECA: any of several tall tropical palms native to southeastern Asia having egg-shaped nuts
ARENA: 1. the central area of an ancient Roman amphitheater where contests and spectacles were held; especially an area that was strewn with sand. 2. a playing field where sports events take place. 
ARENGA: a genus of tropical Asian and Malaysian palm trees
AREOLA: 1. small space in a tissue or body part such as the area between veins on a leaf or an insect's wing. 2. small circular area such as that around the human nipple or an inflamed area around a pimple or insect bite. 
ARES: (Greek mythology) Greek god of war; son of Zeus and Hera; identified with Roman Mars
ARETE: a sharp narrow ridge found in rugged mountains
ARGALI: wild sheep of semidesert regions in central Asia
ARGENT: of lustrous grey; covered with or tinged with the color of silver
ARGIL: a white clay (especially a white clay used by potters)
ARGYLE: 1. a design consisting of a pattern of varicolored diamonds on a solid background (originally for knitted articles); patterned after the tartan of a clan in western Scotland. 2. a sock knitted or woven with an argyle design (usually used in the plural). 
ARGYLL: a covered gravy holder of silver or other metal containing a detachable central vessel for hot water to keep the gravy warm
ARGIVE: of or relating to the ancient Greek city of Argos or its people
ARGO: formerly a large constellation in the southern hemisphere between Canis Major and the Southern Cross; now divided into Carina and Pyxis and Puppis and Vela
ARGON: a colorless and odorless inert gas; one of the six inert gases; comprises approximately 1% of the earth's atmosphere
ARGOS: an ancient city in southeastern Greece; dominated the Peloponnese in the 7th century BC
ARGOSY: one or more large merchant ships
ARGUE: 1. present reasons and arguments. 2. have an argument about something. 3. give evidence of. 
ARGUS: 1. (Greek mythology) a giant with 100 eyes; was guardian of the heifer Io and was slain by Hermes. 2. large brilliantly patterned East Indian pheasant. 
ARHAT: a Buddhist who has attained nirvana
ARIA: an elaborate song for solo voice
ARYAN: 1. (according to Nazi doctrine) a Caucasian person of Nordic descent (and not a Jew). 2. a member of the prehistoric people who spoke Proto-Indo European. 
ARIANA: city in Tunisia
ARID: 1. lacking sufficient water or rainfall. 2. lacking vitality or spirit; lifeless. 
ARIES: 1. (astrology) a person who is born while the sun is in Aries. 2. a small zodiacal constellation in the northern hemisphere; between Pisces and Taurus. 3. the first sign of the zodiac which the sun enters at the vernal equinox; the sun is in this sign from about March 21 to April 19. 
ARIL: fleshy and usually brightly colored cover of some seeds that develops from the ovule stalk and partially or entirely envelopes the seed
ARILED: (of some seeds) having a fleshy and usually brightly colored cover
ARIOSE: having a melody (as distinguished from recitative)
ARIOSO: (music) a short recitative that is melodic but is not an aria
ARISE: 1. originate or come into being. 2. rise to one's feet. 3. result or issue. 
ARISTA: bristlelike process near the tip of the antenna of certain flies
ARIUS: 1. a Greek who was a Christian theologian active in Alexandria and who was declared a heretic for his doctrines about God (which came to be known as Arianism) (256?-336). 2. type genus of the Ariidae: sea catfishes. 
ARJUNA: (Hindu mythology) the warrior prince in the Bhagavad-Gita to whom Krishna explains the nature of being and of God and how humans can come to know God
ARK: 1. (Judaism) sacred chest where the ancient Hebrews kept the two tablets containing the Ten Commandments. 2. a boat built by Noah to save his family and animals from the flood. 
ARM: 1. prepare oneself for a military confrontation. 2. supply with arms. 3. the part of an armchair or sofa that supports the elbow and forearm of a seated person. 
ARMADA: a large fleet
ARMED: 1. (used of persons or the military) characterized by having or bearing arms. 2. having arms or arms as specified; used especially in combination. 3. (used of plants and animals) furnished with bristles and thorns. 
ARMET: a medieval helmet with a visor and a neck guard
ARMFUL: the quantity that can be contained in the arms
ARMY: 1. a permanent organization of the military land forces of a nation or state. 2. a large number of people united for some specific purpose. 
ARMING: the act of equiping with weapons in preparation for war
ARMLET: a band worn around the arm for decoration
ARMOR: 1. equip with armor. 2. a military unit consisting of armored fighting vehicles. 3. tough more-or-less rigid protective covering of an animal or plant. 
ARMORY: 1. a collection of resources. 2. a place where arms are manufactured. 
ARMPIT: the hollow under the arm where it is joined to the shoulder
ARNHEM: a city in the central Netherlands on the lower Rhine River; site of a battle in 1944 during World War II
ARNICA: 1. used especially in treating bruises. 2. any of various rhizomatous usually perennial plants of the genus Arnica. 3. an ointment used in treating bruises. 
ARNO: a river in central Italy rising in the Apennines and flowing through Florence and Pisa to the Ligurian Sea
AROID: relating to a plant of the family Araceae
AROMA: a distinctive odor that is pleasant
AROUND: 1. by a circular or circuitous route. 2. in a circle or circular motion. 3. to a particular destination either specified or understood. 4. in circumference. 
AROUSE: 1. call forth (emotions, feelings, and responses). 2. to begin moving, "As the thunder started the sleeping children began to stir". 3. stimulate sexually. 
ARP: Alsatian artist and poet who was cofounder of dadaism in Zurich; noted for abstract organic sculptures (1887-1966)
ARPENT: a former French unit of area; equal approximately to an acre
ARRACK: any of various strong liquors distilled from the fermented sap of toddy palms or from fermented molasses
ARRAY: 1. an orderly arrangement. 2. an impressive display. 3. especially fine or decorative clothing. 4. an arrangement of aerials spaced to give desired directional characteristics. 
ARRANT: without qualification; used informally as (often pejorative) intensifiers
ARREST: the state of inactivity following an interruption
ARRIVE: 1. reach a destination; arrive by movement or progress. 2. succeed in a big way; get to the top. 
ARROBA: 1. a unit of weight used in some Spanish speaking countries. 2. a liquid measure (with different values) used in some Spanish speaking countries. 
ARROYO: a stream or brook
ARROW: 1. a mark to indicate a direction or relation. 2. a projectile with a straight thin shaft and an arrowhead on one end and stabilizing vanes on the other; intended to be shot from a bow. 
ARSE: vulgar slang for anus
ARSINE: a poisonous colorless flammable gas used in organic synthesis and to dope transistors and as a poison gas in warfare
ARSON: malicious burning to destroy property
ART: 1. the products of human creativity; works of art collectively. 2. the creation of beautiful or significant things. 3. a superior skill that you can learn by study and practice and observation. 
ARTERY: 1. a blood vessel that carries blood from the heart to the body. 2. a major thoroughfare that bears important traffic. 
ARTFUL: marked by skill in achieving a desired end especially with cunning or craft
ARTY: showily imitative of art or artists
ARTIST: a person whose creative work shows sensitivity and imagination
ARTOIS: a former province of northern France near the English Channel (between Picardy and Flanders)
ARUBA: a popular island resort in the Netherlands Antilles
ARULO: an artificial language intended for international use as an auxiliary language
ARUM: 1. starch resembling sago that is obtained from cuckoopint root. 2. any plant of the family Araceae; have small flowers massed on a spadix surrounded by a large spathe. 
ARUNDO: any of several coarse tall perennial grasses of most warm areas: reeds
ASANA: (Hinduism) a posture or manner of sitting (as in the practice of yoga)
ASAP: as soon as possible
ASARH: the fourth month of the Hindu calendar
ASARUM: wild ginger
ASCEND: 1. travel up, "We ascended the mountain". 2. go back in order of genealogical succession. 3. become king or queen. 4. appear to be moving upward, as by means of tendrils. 5. go along towards (a river's) source. 6. slope upwards. 7. move to a better position in life or to a better job. 
ASCENT: an upward slope or grade (as in a road)
ASCOMA: an ascocarp having the spore-bearing layer of cells (the hymenium) on a broad disklike receptacle
ASCOT: a cravat with wide square ends; secured with an ornamental pin
ASCUS: saclike structure in which ascospores are formed through sexual reproduction of ascomycetes
ASGARD: (Norse mythology) the heavenly dwelling of the Norse gods (the Aesir) and slain war heroes
ASH: 1. convert into ashes. 2. any of various deciduous pinnate-leaved ornamental or timber trees of the genus Fraxinus. 3. strong elastic wood of any of various ash trees; used for furniture and tool handles and sporting goods such as baseball bats. 
ASHCAN: a bin that holds rubbish until it is collected
ASHEN: 1. anemic looking from illness or emotion. 2. made of wood of the ash tree. 
ASHLAR: a rectangular block of hewn stone used for building purposes
ASHORE: towards the shore from the water
ASHRAM: 1. a place of religious retreat modeled after the Indian ashram. 2. (India) a place of religious retreat for Hindus. 
ASHTON: British choreographer (1906-1988)
ASHUR: chief god of the Assyrians; god of military prowess and empire; identified with Babylonian Anshar
ASIA: 1. the largest continent with 60% of the earth's population; it is joined to Europe on the west to form Eurasia; it is the site of some of the world's earliest civilizations. 2. the nations of the Asian continent collectively. 
ASIAN: of or relating to or characteristic of Asia or the peoples of Asia or their languages or culture
ASIDE: 1. on or to one side. 2. out of the way (especially away from one's thoughts). 3. placed or kept separate and distinct as for a purpose. 4. in reserve; not for immediate use. 
ASIO: a genus of European owls
ASK: 1. inquire about. 2. make a request or demand for something to somebody. 3. direct or put; seek an answer to. 4. consider obligatory; request and expect. 5. address a question to and expect an answer from. 6. require or ask for as a price or condition. 
ASKEW: turned or twisted to one side
ASLANT: over or across in a slanting direction
ASLEEP: 1. into a sleeping state. 2. in the sleep of death. 3. dead. 
ASMARA: the capital of Eritrea
ASP: 1. of southern Europe; similar to but smaller than the adder. 2. cobra used by the Pharaohs as a symbol of their power over life and death. 
ASPECT: 1. a distinct feature or element in a problem. 2. a characteristic to be considered. 3. the beginning or duration or completion or repetition of the action of a verb. 
ASPEN: any of several trees of the genus Populus having leaves on flattened stalks so that they flutter in the lightest wind
ASPER: 20 aspers equal 1 kurus in Turkey
ASPIC: savory jelly based on fish or meat stock used as a mold for meats or vegetables
ASS: 1. a pompous fool. 2. hardy and sure-footed animal smaller and with longer ears than the horse. 
ASSAY: 1. analyze (chemical substances). 2. a substance that is undergoing an analysis of its components. 3. a written report of the results of an analysis of the composition of some substance. 4. a quantitative or qualitative test of a substance (especially an ore or a drug) to determine its components; frequently used to test for the presence or concentration of infectious agents or antibodies etc.. 
ASSAIL: attack someone physically or emotionally
ASSAM: state in northeastern India
ASSENT: to agree or express agreement
ASSERT: 1. state categorically. 2. insist on having one's opinions and rights recognized. 
ASSESS: 1. charge (a person or a property) with a payment, such as a tax or a fine. 2. estimate the value of (property) for taxation. 
ASSET: a useful or valuable quality
ASSETS: anything of material value or usefulness that is owned by a person or company
ASSIGN: 1. give out. 2. select something or someone for a specific purpose. 3. transfer one's right to. 4. decide as to where something belongs in a scheme. 
ASSIST: act as an assistant in a subordinate or supportive function
ASSIZE: 1. the regulation of weights and measures of articles offered for sale. 2. an ancient writ issued by a court of assize to the sheriff for the recovery of property. 
ASSUME: 1. take to be the case or to be true; accept without verification or proof. 2. take on titles, offices, duties, responsibilities. 3. take on a certain form, attribute, or aspect. 4. occupy or take on. 5. seize and take control without authority and possibly with force; take as one's right or possession. 6. take up someone's soul into heaven. 
ASSUR: an ancient Assyrian city on the Tigris and traditional capital of Assyria; just to the south of the modern city of Mosul in Iraq
ASSURE: 1. inform positively and with certainty and confidence. 2. assure somebody of the truth of something with the intention of giving the listener confidence. 
ASTER: 1. any of various chiefly fall-blooming herbs of the genus Aster with showy daisylike flowers. 2. star-shaped structure formed in the cytoplasm of a cell having fibers like rays that surround the centrosome during mitosis. 
ASTERN: 1. stern foremost or backward. 2. (of a ship or an airplane) behind. 
ASTHMA: respiratory disorder characterized by wheezing; usually of allergic origin
ASTIR: out of bed
ASTRAY: away from the right path or direction
ASTUTE: marked by practical hardheaded intelligence
ASURA: earlier a god; later a demon; counterpart of Zoroastrian Ahura
ASVINS: (literally `possessing horses' in Sanskrit) in Hinduism the twin chariot warriors conveying Surya
ASWAN: an ancient city on the Nile in Egypt; two dams across the Nile have been built nearby
ATAXIA: inability to coordinate voluntary muscle movements; unsteady movements and staggering gait
ATAXIC: lacking motor coordination; marked or caused by ataxia
ATELES: spider monkeys
ATEN: the sun (or solar disc) which was the deity of a monotheistic cult under the Pharaoh Akhenaten
ATHENA: (Greek mythology) goddess of wisdom and useful arts and prudent warfare; guardian of Athens; identified with Roman Minerva
ATHENE: a genus of Strigidae
ATHENS: 1. the capital and largest city of Greece; named after Athena (its patron goddess). 2. a town in southeast Ohio. 3. a university town in northeast Georgia. 
ATHOS: an autonomous area in northeastern Greece that is the site of several Greek Orthodox monasteries founded in the tenth century
ATILT: departing or being caused to depart from the true vertical or horizontal
ATLAS: 1. (Greek mythology) a Titan who was forced by Zeus to bear the sky on his shoulders. 2. a collection of maps in book form. 3. the 1st cervical vertebra. 4. a figure of a man used as a supporting column. 
ATOLE: eaten as mush or as a thin gruel
ATOLL: an island consisting of a circular coral reef surrounding a lagoon
ATOM: 1. (physics and chemistry) the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element. 2. (nontechnical usage) a tiny piece of anything. 
ATOMIC: 1. of or relating to or comprising atoms. 2. immeasurably small. 
ATONAL: characterized by avoidance of traditional western tonality
ATONIC: 1. characterized by a lack of tonus. 2. used of syllables. 
ATOP: on, to, or at the top
ATREUS: (Greek mythology) the king of Mycenae and father of Agamemnon and of Menelaus
ATRIAL: of or relating to a cavity or chamber in the body (especially one of the upper chambers of the heart)
ATRIUM: 1. any chamber that is connected to other chambers or passageways (especially one of the two upper chambers of the heart). 2. the central area in a building; open to the sky. 
ATROPA: belladonna
ATTACH: 1. cause to be attached. 2. be attached; be in contact with. 3. become attached. 
ATTACK: 1. launch an attack or assault on; begin hostilities or start warfare with. 2. attack in speech or writing. 3. set to work upon; turn one's energies vigorously to a task. 4. begin to injure. 5. a sudden occurrence of an uncontrollable condition. 6. the onset of a corrosive or destructive process (as by a chemical agent). 7. strong criticism. 8. take the initiative and go on the offensive. 
ATTAR: essential oil or perfume obtained from flowers
ATTEND: 1. be present at (meetings, church services, university), etc.. 2. take charge of or deal with. 3. to accompany as a circumstance or follow as a result. 4. give heed (to). 
ATTEST: 1. provide evidence for; stand as proof of; show by one's behavior, attitude, or external attributes. 2. authenticate, affirm to be true, genuine, or correct, as in an official capacity. 3. establish or verify the usage of. 
ATTIC: 1. the dialect of Ancient Greek spoken and written in Attica and Athens and Ionia. 2. informal terms for a human head. 3. (architecture) a low wall at the top of the entablature; hides the roof. 4. of or relating to Attica or its inhabitants or to the dialect spoken in Athens in classical times. 
ATTICA: the territory of Athens in ancient Greece where the Ionic dialect was spoken
ATTILA: king of the Huns; the most successful barbarian invader of the Roman Empire (406-453)
ATTIRE: clothing of a distinctive style or for a particular occasion
ATTLEE: British statesman and leader of the Labour Party who instituted the welfare state in Britain (1883-1967)
ATTORN: acknowledge a new land owner as one's landlord
ATTUNE: adjust or accustom to; bring into harmony with
AUBURN: (of hair) colored a moderate reddish-brown
AUCUBA: hardy evergreen dioecious shrubs and small trees from Japan
AUDILE: one whose mental imagery is auditory rather than visual or motor
AUDIO: 1. the audible part of a transmitted signal. 2. an audible acoustic wave frequency. 3. the sound elements of television. 
AUDIT: 1. attend academic courses without getting credit. 2. examine carefully for accuracy with the intent of verification. 
AUGEAN: extremely filthy from long neglect
AUGEAS: (Greek mythology) the mythical Greek king who for 30 years did not clean his stables which contained his vast herd of cattle
AUGEND: a number to which another number (the addend) is added
AUGER: hand tool for boring holes
AUGITE: dark-green to black glassy mineral of the pyroxene group containing large amounts of aluminum and iron and magnesium
AUGUR: 1. (ancient Rome) a religious official who interpreted omens to guide public policy. 2. predict from an omen. 
AUGURY: an event that is experienced as indicating important things to come
AUGUST: 1. of or befitting a lord. 2. profoundly honored. 
AUK: black-and-white short-necked web-footed diving bird of northern seas
AUKLET: any of several small auks of the northern Pacific coasts
AULD: a Scottish word
AUNT: the sister of your father or mother; the wife of your uncle
AURA: 1. a sensation (as of a cold breeze or bright light) that precedes the onset of certain disorders such as a migraine attack or epileptic seizure. 2. an indication of radiant light drawn around the head of a saint. 
AURAL: 1. of or pertaining to hearing or the ear. 2. relating to or characterized by an aura. 
AURIFY: 1. transform into gold. 2. turn golden. 
AURIGA: a conspicuous constellation in the northern hemisphere; between Great Bear and Orion at edge of Milky Way
AURORA: 1. an atmospheric phenomenon consisting of bands of light caused by charged solar particles following the earth's magnetic lines of force. 2. (Roman mythology) goddess of the dawn; counterpart of Greek Eos. 
AUROUS: of or relating to or containing or derived from gold
AUSTEN: English novelist noted for her insightful portrayals of middle-class families (1775-1817)
AUSTIN: state capital of Texas on the Colorado River; site of the University of Texas
AUTEUR: a filmmaker who has a personal style and keeps creative control over his or her works
AUTHOR: be the author of
AUTISM: (psychiatry) an abnormal absorption with the self; marked by communication disorders and short attention span and inability to treat others as people
AUXIN: a plant hormone that promotes root formation and bud growth
AVAHI: a genus of Indriidae
AVAIL: 1. use to one's advantage. 2. be of use to, be useful to. 3. take or use. 
AVARAM: evergreen Indian shrub with vivid yellow flowers whose bark is used in tanning; sometimes placed in genus Cassia
AVATAR: the manifestation of a Hindu deity (especially Vishnu) in human or superhuman or animal form
AVENA: oats
AVENS: any of various perennials of the genus Geum having usually pinnate basal leaves and variously colored flowers
AVENUE: 1. a line of approach. 2. a wide street or thoroughfare. 
AVERT: turn away or aside
AVES: (ornithology) the class of birds
AVESTA: a collection of Zoroastrian texts gathered during the 4th or 6th centuries
AVIAN: pertaining to or characteristic of birds
AVIARY: a building where birds are kept
AVID: 1. (often followed by `for') ardently or excessively desirous. 2. marked by active interest and enthusiasm. 
AVIDLY: in an avid manner
AVO: 100 avos equal 1 pataca in Macao
AVOCET: long-legged web-footed black-and-white shorebird with slender upward-curving bill
AVOID: 1. stay clear from; keep away from; keep out of the way of someone or something. 2. refrain from doing something. 
AVON: 1. a river in southwestern England rising in Gloucestershire and flowing through Bristol to empty into the estuary of the Severn. 2. a river in central England that flows through Stratford-on-Avon and empties into the Severn. 3. a county in southwestern England. 
AVOW: admit openly and bluntly; make no bones about
AVOWAL: a statement asserting the existence or the truth of something
AVOWED: openly declared as such
AVOWER: someone who admits or acknowledges openly and boldly
AVULSE: separate by avulsion
AWAY: 1. from a particular thing or place or position (`forth' is obsolete). 2. from one's possession. 3. (of a baseball pitch) on the far side of home plate from the batter. 4. out of existence. 5. indicating continuing action; continuously or steadily. 6. so as to be removed or gotten rid of. 7. freely or at will. 8. in or into a proper place (especially for storage or safekeeping). 9. in a different direction. 
AWAKE: not in a state of sleep; completely conscious
AWAKEN: 1. cause to become awake or conscious. 2. make aware. 
AWARD: 1. give, especially as an honor or reward. 2. give as judged due or on the basis of merit. 
AWARE: (sometimes followed by `of') having or showing knowledge or understanding or realization or perception
AWE: inspire awe in
AWEARY: physically and mentally fatigued
AWED: 1. inspired by a feeling of fearful wonderment or reverence. 2. having or showing a feeling of mixed reverence and respect and wonder and dread. 
AWEIGH: 1. (used of an anchor) hanging clear of the bottom. 2. (of an anchor) just clear of the bottom. 
AWFUL: causing fear or dread or terror
AWHEEL: traveling by wheeled vehicle such as bicycle or automobile e.g.
AWHILE: for a short time
AWL: a pointed tool for marking surfaces or for punching small holes
AWN: slender bristlelike appendage found on the bracts of grasses
AWNED: having awns i.e. bristlelike or hairlike appendages on the flowering parts of some cereals and grasses
AWNING: a canopy made of canvas to shelter people or things from rain or sun
AWOL: one who is away or absent without leave
AWRY: away from the correct or expected course
AX: 1. an edge tool with a heavy bladed head mounted across a handle. 2. terminate. 
AXE: chop or split with an ax
AXENIC: 1. (of experimental animals) raised under sterile conditions. 2. (used of cultures of microorganisms) completely free from other organisms. 
AXIAL: 1. of or relating to or resembling an axis of rotation. 2. situated on or along or in the direction of an axis. 
AXIL: the upper angle between an axis and an offshoot such as a branch or leafstalk
AXILE: relating to or attached to the axis
AXIOM: (logic) a proposition that is not susceptible of proof or disproof; its truth is assumed to be self-evident
AXIS: 1. a straight line through a body or figure that satisfies certain conditions. 2. the main stem or central part about which plant organs or plant parts such as branches are arranged. 3. in World War II the alliance of Germany and Italy in 1936 which later included Japan and other nations. 4. the 2nd cervical vertebra; serves as a pivot for turning the head. 5. the center around which something rotates. 
AXLE: a shaft on which a wheel rotates
AXON: long nerve fiber that conducts away from the cell body of the neuron
AXONAL: of or relating to or resembling an axon
AZALEA: any of numerous ornamental shrubs grown for their showy flowers of various colors
AZIDE: a chemical compound containing the azido group combined with an element or radical
AZIDO: relating to or containing the azido group N3
AZO: relating to or containing the azo radical
AZOIC: before the appearance of life
AZOLLA: a genus of fern sometimes placed in its own family Azollaceae
AZONAL: not divided into zones
AZONIC: not restricted to any particular zone or region
AZORES: islands in the Atlantic Ocean belonging to Portugal
AZOTE: an obsolete name for nitrogen
AZOTIC: of or containing nitrogen
AZTEC: a member of the Nahuatl people who established an empire in Mexico that was overthrown by Cortes in 1519
AZURE: of a deep somewhat purplish blue color similar to that of a clear October sky
A4: A standard paper size of 210 x 297mm
A5: A standard paper size (half A4), 148 x 210mm
AAAL: American Academy of Arts and Letters
AARAU: A town in Switzerland, capital of Aargau canton
ABACO: Two islands (Great Abaco and Little Abaco) in N Bahamas
BAA: the cry made by sheep
BAAL: any of numerous local fertility and nature deities worshipped by ancient Semitic peoples; the Hebrews considered Baal a false god
BAAS: South African term for `boss'
BABA: a small cake leavened with yeast
BABAR: an imaginary elephant that appears in a series of French books for children
BABBLE: 1. utter meaningless sounds, like a baby, or utter in an incoherent way. 2. to talk foolishly. 
BABEL: a confusion of voices and other sounds
BABY: 1. a very young child (birth to 1 year) who has not yet begun to walk or talk. 2. the youngest member of a group (not necessarily young). 3. an unborn child; a human fetus. 4. (slang) sometimes used as a term of address for attractive young women. 5. a very young mammal. 6. a project of personal concern to someone. 
BABKA: a coffee cake flavored with orange rind and raisins and almonds
BABOON: large terrestrial monkeys having doglike muzzles
BABU: used as a Hindi courtesy title; equivalent to English `Mr'
BACH: 1. German baroque organist and contrapuntist; composed mostly keyboard music; one of the greatest creators of western music (1685-1750). 2. the music of Bach. 
BACK: 1. in or to or toward a former location. 2. in or to or toward an original condition. 3. in or to or toward a past time. 4. the part of a garment that covers the back of your body. 5. shift to a counterclockwise direction. 6. establish as valid or genuine. 7. at or to or toward the back or rear. 8. in reply. 9. in repayment or retaliation. 10. strengthen by providing with a back or backing. 
BACKED: 1. having a back or backing, usually of a specified type. 2. used of film that is coated on the side opposite the emulsion with a substance to absorb light. 
BACKUP: 1. an accumulation caused by clogging or a stoppage. 2. (computer science) a copy of a file or directory on a separate storage device. 
BACON: 1. back and sides of a hog salted and dried or smoked; usually sliced thin and fried. 2. English scientist and Franciscan monk who stressed the importance of experimentation; first showed that air is required for combustion and first used lenses to correct vision (1220-1292). 3. English statesman and philosopher; precursor of British empiricism; advocated inductive reasoning (1561-1626). 
BAD: 1. having undesirable or negative qualities. 2. very intense. 3. feeling physical discomfort or pain (`tough' is occasionally used colloquially for `bad'). 4. (of foodstuffs) not in an edible or usable condition. 5. not capable of being collected. 6. below average in quality or performance. 7. nonstandard. 8. not financially safe or secure. 9. physically unsound or diseased. 10. capable of harming. 11. characterized by wickedness or immorality. 12. reproduced fraudulently. 13. not working properly. 
BADAGA: 1. a member of an agricultural people of southern India. 2. the dialect of Kannada that is spoken by the Badaga. 
BADE: a Chadic language spoken in northern Nigeria
BADGE: 1. put a badge on. 2. any feature that is regarded as a sign of status (a particular power or quality or rank). 
BADGER: persuade through constant efforts
BADLY: 1. to a severe or serious degree. 2. evilly or wickedly. 3. in a disobedient or naughty way. 4. with great intensity (`bad' is a nonstandard variant for `badly'). 5. very much; strongly. 6. without skill or in a displeasing manner. 7. in a disadvantageous way; to someone's disadvantage. 8. with unusual distress or resentment or regret or emotional display. 
BAFFLE: 1. a flat plate that controls or directs the flow of fluid or energy. 2. check the emission of (sound). 
BAG: 1. capture or kill, as in hunting. 2. hang loosely, like an empty bag. 3. a container used for carrying money and small personal items or accessories (especially by women). 4. put into a bag. 5. a portable rectangular container for carrying clothes. 6. an ugly or ill-tempered woman. 
BAGEL: (Yiddish) glazed yeast-raised doughnut-shaped roll with hard crust
BAGGER: a machine for putting objects or substances into bags
BAGGY: not fitting closely; hanging loosely
BAGMAN: a racketeer assigned to collect or distribute payoff money
BAGUET: narrow French stick loaf
BAHAI: of or relating to Bahaism
BAHT: the basic unit of money in Thailand
BAI: the Tibeto-Burman language spoken in the Dali region of Yunnan
BAY: 1. (used of animals especially a horse) of a moderate reddish-brown color. 2. bark with prolonged noises, of dogs. 3. a compartment on a ship between decks; often used as a hospital. 4. a compartment in an aircraft used for some specific purpose. 5. a horse of a moderate reddish-brown color. 
BAYA: common Indian weaverbird
BAYARD: French soldier said to be fearless and chivalrous (1473-1524)
BAIKAL: the largest freshwater lake in Asia or Europe and the deepest lake in the world
BAIL: 1. release after a security has been paid. 2. deliver something in trust to somebody for a special purpose and for a limited period. 3. secure the release of (someone) by providing security. 4. empty (a vessel) by bailing. 5. remove (water) from a vessel with a container. 
BAILEE: the agent to whom property involved in a bailment is delivered
BAILEY: 1. United States singer (1918-1990). 2. English lexicographer who was the first to treat etymology consistently; his work was used as a reference by Samuel Johnson (died in 1742). 3. the outer courtyard of a castle. 4. the outer defensive wall that surrounds the outer courtyard of a castle. 
BAILOR: the person who delivers personal property (goods or money) in trust to the bailee in a bailment
BAYOU: a swampy arm or slow-moving outlet of a lake (term used mainly in Mississippi and Louisiana)
BAIRN: a child: son or daughter
BAIT: 1. anything that serves as an enticement. 2. lure, entice, or entrap with bait. 3. attack with dogs or set dogs upon. 
BAIZA: 1,000 baiza equal 1 riyal-omani in Oman
BAIZE: a bright green fabric napped to resemble felt; used to cover gaming tables
BAKE: 1. cook and make edible by putting in a hot oven. 2. prepare with dry heat in an oven. 3. be very hot, due to hot weather or exposure to the sun. 
BAKED: (bread and pastries) cooked by dry heat (as in an oven)
BAKER: 1. someone who bakes commercially. 2. someone who bakes bread or cake. 
BAKERY: a workplace where baked goods (breads and cakes and pastries) are produced or sold
BAKING: 1. as hot as if in an oven. 2. cooking by dry heat in an oven. 
BAKU: a port city on the Caspian Sea that is the capital of Azerbaijan and an important center for oil production
BALAS: a pale rose-colored variety of the ruby spinel
BALATA: 1. when dried yields a hard substance used e.g. in golf balls. 2. a tropical hardwood tree yielding balata gum and heavy red timber. 
BALBOA: 1. the basic unit of money in Panama; equal to 100 centesimos. 2. Spanish explorer who in 1513 crossed the Isthmus of Darien and became the first European to see the eastern shores of the Pacific Ocean (1475-1519). 
BALD: 1. with no effort to conceal. 2. lacking hair on all or most of the scalp. 3. without the natural or usual covering. 
BALDER: (Norse mythology) god of light and peace and noted for his beauty and sweet nature; son of Odin and Frigg and husband of Nanna; killed by Hoth
BALDLY: in a bald manner
BALE: make into a bale
BALI: an island in Indonesia to the east of Java; striking volcanic scenery; culture is known for elaborate dances and rituals and for handicrafts
BALK: 1. the area on a billiard table behind the balkline. 2. an illegal pitching motion while runners are on base. 
BALKAN: an inhabitant of the Balkan Peninsula
BALKER: a person who refuses to comply
BALL: 1. form into a ball by winding or rolling. 2. an object with a spherical shape. 3. the people assembled at a lavish formal dance. 4. a spherical object used as a plaything. 5. United States comedienne best known as the star of a popular television program (1911-1989). 6. a compact mass. 7. a lavish dance requiring formal attire. 8. a more or less rounded anatomical body or mass. 9. the game of baseball. 10. a pitch that is not in the strike zone. 
BALLAD: 1. a narrative song with a recurrent refrain. 2. a narrative poem of popular origin. 
BALLET: 1. a theatrical representation of a story that is performed to music by trained dancers. 2. music written for a ballet. 
BALLY: informal intensifiers
BALLOT: vote by ballot
BALLUP: something badly botched or muddled
BALM: any of various aromatic resinous substances used for healing and soothing
BALMY: 1. informal or slang terms for mentally irregular. 2. mild and pleasant. 
BALSA: 1. strong lightweight wood of the balsa tree used especially for floats. 2. forest tree of lowland Central America having a strong very light wood; used for making floats and rafts and in crafts. 
BALSAM: 1. any seed plant yielding balsam. 2. any of various fragrant oleoresins used in medicines and perfumes. 3. an ointment containing a fragrant resin. 
BALTIC: 1. of or pertaining to or characteristic of the Baltic States or their peoples or languages. 2. of or near or on the Baltic Sea. 
BALZAC: French novelist; he portrays the complexity of 19th century French society (1799-1850)
BAM: an ancient city in southeastern Iran; destroyed by an earthquake in 2003
BAMAKO: the capital of Mali; located in the south on the Niger
BAMBOO: 1. the hard woody stems of bamboo plants; used in construction and crafts and fishing poles. 2. woody tropical grass having hollow woody stems; mature canes used for construction and furniture. 
BAN: 1. prohibit especially by legal means or social pressure. 2. 100 bani equal 1 leu in Romania. 3. an official prohibition or edict against something. 4. forbid the public distribution of ( a movie or a newspaper). 
BANAL: repeated too often; overfamiliar through overuse
BANANA: 1. any of several tropical and subtropical treelike herbs of the genus Musa having a terminal crown of large entire leaves and usually bearing hanging clusters of elongated fruits. 2. elongated crescent-shaped yellow fruit with soft sweet flesh. 
BAND: 1. instrumentalists not including string players. 2. a stripe or stripes of contrasting color. 3. an adornment consisting of a strip of a contrasting color or material. 4. a range of frequencies between two limits. 5. a thin flat strip of flexible material that is worn around the body or one of the limbs (especially to decorate the body). 6. a driving belt in machinery. 7. a thin flat strip or loop of flexible material that goes around or over something else, typically to hold it together or as a decoration. 8. a strip of material attached to the leg of a bird to identify it (as in studies of bird migration). 9. a restraint put around something to hold it together. 10. bind or tie together, as with a band. 
BANDED: 1. identified with a band especially around a leg. 2. marked with bands or strips of contrasting color or texture. 3. characterized by a band of especially white around the body. 
BANDY: 1. have legs that curve outward at the knees. 2. exchange blows. 3. discuss lightly. 
BANDIT: an armed thief who is (usually) a member of a band
BANE: something causing misery or death
BANFF: a popular vacation spot in the Canadian Rockies
BANG: 1. to produce a sharp often metallic explosive or percussive sound. 2. a border of hair that is cut short and hangs across the forehead. 3. move noisily. 4. directly. 
BANGER: (British informal) pork sausage
BANGLE: cheap showy jewelry or ornament on clothing
BANGOR: 1. a town in east central Maine on the Penobscot River. 2. a university town in northwestern Wales on the Menai Strait. 3. a town in southeastern Northern Ireland. 
BANGUI: the capital and largest city of the Central African Republic
BANYAN: 1. East Indian tree that puts out aerial shoots that grow down into the soil forming additional trunks. 2. a loose fitting jacket; originally worn in India. 
BANISH: 1. expel from a community or group. 2. ban from a place of residence, as for punishment. 3. expel, as if by official decree. 4. drive away. 
BANJO: a stringed instrument of the guitar family that has long neck and circular body
BANJUL: a port city and capital of Gambia
BANK: 1. tip laterally. 2. do business with a bank or keep an account at a bank. 3. act as the banker in a game or in gambling. 4. be in the banking business. 5. the funds held by a gambling house or the dealer in some gambling games. 6. cover with ashes so to control the rate of burning. 7. a building in which the business of banking transacted. 8. a flight maneuver; aircraft tips laterally about its longitudinal axis (especially in turning). 9. enclose with a bank. 
BANKER: 1. a financier who owns or is an executive in a bank. 2. the person in charge of the bank in a gambling game. 
BANKS: English botanist who accompanied Captain Cook on his first voyage to the Pacific Ocean (1743-1820)
BANNED: forbidden by law
BANNER: unusually good; outstanding
BANNS: a public announcement of a proposed marriage
BANTAM: very small
BANTER: light teasing repartee
BANTU: 1. of or relating to the African people who speak one of the Bantoid languages or to their culture. 2. a family of languages widely spoken in the southern half of the African continent. 
BANZAI: a Japanese cheer of enthusiasm or triumph
BAOBAB: African tree having an exceedingly thick trunk and fruit that resembles a gourd and has an edible pulp called monkey bread
BAP: a small loaf or roll of soft bread
BAPHIA: small genus of shrubs and lianas and trees of Africa and Madagascar
BAR: 1. a counter where you can obtain food or drink. 2. a rigid piece of metal or wood; usually used as a fastening or obstruction or weapon. 3. an obstruction (usually metal) placed at the top of a goal. 4. (meteorology) a unit of pressure equal to a million dynes per square centimeter. 5. a submerged (or partly submerged) ridge in a river or along a shore. 6. a horizontal rod that serves as a support for gymnasts as they perform exercises. 7. a heating element in an electric fire. 8. (law) a railing that encloses the part of the courtroom where the judges and lawyers sit and the case is tried. 9. prevent from entering; keep out. 10. secure with, or as if with, bars. 
BARANY: Austrian physician who developed a rotational method for testing the middle ear (1876-1936)
BARB: 1. the pointed part of barbed wire. 2. a subsidiary point facing opposite from the main point that makes an arrowhead or spear hard to remove. 3. one of the parallel filaments projecting from the main shaft of a feather. 4. provide with barbs. 
BARBED: 1. capable of wounding. 2. having or covered with protective barbs or quills or spines or thorns or setae etc.. 
BARBEL: slender tactile process on the jaws of a fish
BARBER: 1. perform the services of a barber: cut the hair and/or beard of. 2. a hairdresser who cuts hair and shaves beards as a trade. 
BARBET: small brightly colored stout-billed tropical bird having short weak wings
BARBU: found along western Atlantic coast
BARD: 1. a lyric poet. 2. an ornamental caparison for a horse. 
BARDIC: being a bard or relating to a bard's poetry
BARE: 1. completely unclothed. 2. lacking in amplitude or quantity. 3. lacking its natural or customary covering. 4. just barely adequate or within a lower limit. 5. apart from anything else; without additions or modifications. 6. lacking a surface finish such as paint. 7. providing no shelter or sustenance. 8. having everything extraneous removed including contents. 
BARELY: only a very short time before
BARGE: 1. push one's way. 2. transport by barge on a body of water. 
BARI: capital city of the Apulia region on the Adriatic coast
BARIC: of or relating to or containing barium
BARYE: the absolute unit of pressure equal to one dyne per square centimeter
BARYON: any of the elementary particles having a mass equal to or greater than that of a proton and that participate in strong interactions; a hadron with a baryon number of +1
BARYTA: any of several compounds of barium
BARIUM: a soft silvery metallic element of the alkali earth group; found in barite
BARK: 1. speak in an unfriendly tone. 2. cover with bark. 3. remove the bark of a tree. 4. make barking sounds. 5. tan (a skin) with bark tannins. 
BARKER: someone who stands in front of a show (as at a carnival) and gives a loud colorful sales talk to potential customers
BARKY: resembling the rough bark of a tree
BARLEY: 1. a grain of barley. 2. cultivated since prehistoric times; grown for forage and grain. 
BARN: 1. an outlying farm building for storing grain or animal feed and housing farm animals. 2. (physics) a unit of nuclear cross section; the effective circular area that one particle presents to another as a target for an encounter. 
BARON: 1. a nobleman (in various countries) of varying rank. 2. a British peer of the lowest rank. 3. a very wealthy or powerful businessman. 
BARONG: a knife resembling a cleaver; used in the Philippines
BARONY: 1. the estate of a baron. 2. the domain of a baron. 
BARRED: marked with stripes or bands
BARREL: 1. put in barrels. 2. a cylindrical container that holds liquids. 3. a bulging cylindrical shape; hollow with flat ends. 4. the quantity that a barrel (of any size) will hold. 5. any of various units of capacity. 
BARREN: 1. an uninhabited wilderness that is worthless for cultivation. 2. not bearing offspring. 3. completely wanting or lacking. 
BARRIE: Scottish dramatist and novelist; created Peter Pan (1860-1937)
BARRIO: 1. a Spanish-speaking quarter in a town or city (especially in the United States). 2. an urban area in a Spanish-speaking country. 
BARROW: 1. the quantity that a barrow will hold. 2. a cart for carrying small loads; has handles and one or more wheels. 
BARTER: exchange goods without involving money
BASAL: 1. serving as or forming a base. 2. of primary importance. 
BASALT: the commonest type of solidified lava; a dense dark grey fine-grained igneous rock that is composed chiefly of plagioclase feldspar and pyroxene
BASE: 1. installation from which a military force initiates operations. 2. (used of metals) consisting of or alloyed with inferior metal. 3. not adhering to ethical or moral principles. 4. having or showing an ignoble lack of honor or morality. 5. a support or foundation. 6. any of various water-soluble compounds capable of turning litmus blue and reacting with an acid to form a salt and water. 7. the bottom side of a geometric figure from which the altitude can be constructed. 8. (numeration system) the positive integer that is equivalent to one in the next higher counting place. 9. the place where you are stationed and from which missions start and end. 10. the principal ingredient of a mixture. 11. a flat bottom on which something is intended to sit. 12. (electronics) the part of a transistor that separates the emitter from the collector. 13. of low birth or station (`base' is archaic in this sense). 14. illegitimate. 15. debased; not genuine. 
BASED: 1. having a base. 2. having a base of operations (often used as a combining form). 
BASEL: a city in northwestern Switzerland
BASH: an uproarious party
BASIC: 1. pertaining to or constituting a base or basis. 2. reduced to the simplest and most significant form possible without loss of generality. 3. serving as a base or starting point. 4. of or denoting or of the nature of or containing a base. 
BASICS: a statement of fundamental facts or principles
BASIL: 1. any of several Old World tropical aromatic annual or perennial herbs of the genus Ocimum. 2. (Roman Catholic Church) the bishop of Caesarea who defended the Roman Catholic Church against the heresies of the 4th century; a saint and Doctor of the Church (329-379). 3. leaves of the common basil; used fresh or dried. 
BASIN: 1. a bowl-shaped vessel; usually used for holding food or liquids. 2. the quantity that a basin will hold. 3. a natural depression in the surface of the land often with a lake at the bottom of it. 
BASIS: 1. the fundamental assumptions from which something is begun or developed or calculated or explained. 2. the most important or necessary part of something. 
BASK: be exposed
BASKET: 1. a container that is usually woven and has handles. 2. the quantity contained in a basket. 3. horizontal circular metal hoop supporting a net through which players try to throw the basketball. 4. a score in basketball made by throwing the ball through the hoop. 
BASQUE: 1. a member of a people of unknown origin living in the western Pyrenees in France and Spain. 2. the language of the Basque people; of no known relation to any other language. 
BASRA: the second largest city in Iraq; an oil port in southern Iraq
BASS: 1. having or denoting a low vocal or instrumental range. 2. the lowest part in polyphonic music. 3. an adult male singer with the lowest voice. 4. the lowest adult male singing voice. 5. the member with the lowest range of a family of musical instruments. 6. nontechnical name for any of numerous edible marine and freshwater spiny-finned fishes. 
BASSET: appear at the surface
BASSIA: summer cypress
BAST: 1. strong woody fibers obtained especially from the phloem of from various plants. 2. cat- or lion-headed Egyptian goddess; represents life-giving power of the sun. 
BASTE: 1. cover with liquid before cooking. 2. sew together loosely, with large stitches. 
BASTER: 1. a cook who bastes roasting meat with melted fat or gravy. 2. a sewer who fastens a garment with long loose stitches. 3. a tube with a rubber bulb used to take up and release melted fat or gravy in order to moisten roasting meat. 
BAT: 1. strike with, or as if with a baseball bat. 2. wink briefly. 3. a club used for hitting a ball in various games. 4. have a turn at bat. 5. use a bat. 
BATAAN: the peninsula and island in the Philippines where Japanese forces besieged American forces in World War II; United States forces surrendered in 1942 and recaptured the area in 1945
BATCH: 1. batch together; assemble or process as a batch. 2. (often followed by `of') a large number or amount or extent. 3. a collection of things or persons to be handled together. 
BATE: 1. moderate or restrain; lessen the force of. 2. flap the wings wildly or frantically; used of falcons. 3. soak in a special solution to soften and remove chemicals used in previous treatments. 
BATED: diminished or moderated
BATH: 1. a vessel containing liquid in which something is immersed (as to process it or to maintain it at a constant temperature or to lubricate it). 2. you soak and wash your body in a bathtub. 3. an ancient Hebrew liquid measure equal to about 10 gallons. 4. a town in southwestern England on the River Avon; famous for its hot springs and Roman remains. 
BATHE: 1. cleanse the entire body. 2. suffuse with or as if with light. 3. clean one's body by immersion into water. 
BATHER: a person who takes a bath
BATHOS: triteness or triviality of style
BATIK: dye with wax
BATIS: small genus of plants constituting the family Batidaceae: low straggling dioecious shrubs
BATMAN: an orderly assigned to serve a British military officer
BATNA: a town in north central Algeria
BATON: 1. a thin tapered rod used by a conductor to lead an orchestra or choir. 2. a short staff carried by some officials to symbolize an office or an authority. 3. a hollow metal rod that is wielded or twirled by a drum major or drum majorette. 4. a hollow cylinder passed from runner to runner in a relay race. 
BATTEN: 1. secure with battens. 2. furnish with battens. 
BATTER: 1. (baseball) a ballplayer who is batting. 2. a liquid or semiliquid mixture, as of flour, eggs, and milk, used in cooking. 
BATTLE: battle or contend against in or as if in a battle
BATTUE: a hunt in which beaters force the game to flee in the direction of the hunter
BAUBLE: a mock scepter carried by a court jester
BAUD: (computer science) a data transmission rate (bits/second) for modems
BAWBEE: an old Scottish coin of little value
BAWDY: humorously vulgar
BAWDRY: lewd or obscene talk or writing
BAWL: 1. shout loudly and without restraint. 2. cry loudly. 
BAWLER: a loud weeper
BAZAAR: 1. a shop where a variety of goods are sold. 2. a street of small shops (especially in Orient). 3. a sale of miscellany; often for charity. 
BCE: of the period before the Common Era; preferred by some writers who are not Christians
BE: 1. have the quality of being; (copula, used with an adjective or a predicate noun). 2. be identical to; be someone or something. 3. occupy a certain position or area; be somewhere. 4. happen, occur, take place; this was during the visit to my parents' house". 5. work in a specific place, with a specific subject, or in a specific function. 6. spend or use time. 7. have life, be alive. 8. to remain unmolested, undisturbed, or uninterrupted -- used only in infinitive form. 
BEACH: land on a beach
BEACON: 1. shine like a beacon. 2. a tower with a light that gives warning of shoals to passing ships. 3. guide with a beacon. 
BEAD: 1. form into beads, as of water or sweat, for example. 2. decorate by sewing beads onto. 3. string together like beads. 
BEADED: covered with beads of liquid
BEADY: 1. small and round and shiny like a shiny bead or button. 2. covered with beads or jewels or sequins. 
BEADLE: 1. a minor parish official who serves a ceremonial function. 2. United States biologist who discovered how hereditary characteristics are transmitted by genes (1903-1989). 
BEADS: several beads threaded together on a string
BEAGLE: a small short-legged smooth-coated breed of hound
BEAK: 1. beaklike mouth of animals other than birds (e.g., turtles). 2. horny projecting mouth of a bird. 3. a beaklike, tapering tip on certain plant structures. 4. informal terms for the nose. 
BEAKED: having or resembling a beak
BEAKER: 1. a flatbottomed jar made of glass or plastic; used for chemistry. 2. a cup (usually without a handle). 
BEAM: 1. long thick piece of wood or metal or concrete, etc., used in construction. 2. express with a beaming face or smile. 3. a column of light (as from a beacon). 4. (nautical) breadth amidships. 5. the broad side of a ship. 6. smile radiantly; express joy through one's facial expression. 
BEAMY: broad in the beam
BEAN: 1. hit on the head, especially with a pitched baseball. 2. any of various seeds or fruits that are beans or resemble beans. 3. any of various leguminous plants grown for their edible seeds and pods. 
BEANIE: a small skullcap; formerly worn by schoolboys and college freshmen
BEAR: 1. have. 2. an investor with a pessimistic market outlook; an investor who expects prices to fall and so sells now in order to buy later at a lower price. 3. move while holding up or supporting. 4. bring forth, "The apple tree bore delicious apples this year". 5. take on as one's own the expenses or debts of another person. 6. have rightfully; of rights, titles, and offices. 
BEARD: 1. go along the rim, like a beard around the chin. 2. a tuft or growth of hairs or bristles on certain plants such as iris or grasses. 3. a person who diverts suspicion from someone (especially a woman who accompanies a male homosexual in order to conceal his homosexuality). 4. hairy growth on or near the face of certain mammals. 
BEARER: a messenger who bears or presents
BEAST: a cruelly rapacious person
BEAT: 1. come out better in a competition, race, or conflict. 2. move rhythmically. 3. the sound of stroke or blow. 4. move with a thrashing motion. 5. sail with much tacking or with difficulty. 6. stir vigorously. 7. give a beating to; subject to a beating, either as a punishment or as an act of aggression. 8. hit repeatedly. 9. shape by beating. 10. glare or strike with great intensity. 11. strike (a part of one's own body) repeatedly, as in great emotion or in accompaniment to music. 12. be superior. 13. avoid paying. 14. move with a flapping motion. 15. indicate by beating, as with the fingers or drumsticks. 16. make by pounding or trampling. 17. produce a rhythm by striking repeatedly. 18. strike (water or bushes) repeatedly to rouse animals for hunting. 
BEATEN: 1. formed or made thin by hammering. 2. much trodden and worn smooth or bare. 
BEATER: 1. a worker who rouses wild game from under cover for a hunter. 2. an implement for beating. 
BEAUTY: 1. the qualities that give pleasure to the senses. 2. an outstanding example of its kind. 
BEAVER: 1. work hard on something. 2. a full beard. 3. a movable piece of armor on a medieval helmet used to protect the lower face. 4. a hat made with the fur of a beaver (or similar material). 5. large semiaquatic rodent with webbed hind feet and a broad flat tail; construct complex dams and underwater lodges. 
BECK: a beckoning gesture
BECKET: 1. (Roman Catholic Church) archbishop of Canterbury from 1162 to 1170; murdered following his opposition to Henry II's attempts to control the clergy (1118-1170). 2. (nautical) a short line with an eye at one end and a knot at the other; used to secure loose items on a ship. 
BECKON: 1. signal with the hands or nod. 2. appear inviting. 3. summon with a wave, nod, or some other gesture. 
BECOME: 1. enter or assume a certain state or condition. 2. undergo a change or development. 3. come into existence. 4. enhance the appearance of. 
BED: 1. furnish with a bed. 2. place (plants) in a prepared bed of soil. 3. put to bed. 4. (geology) a stratum of rock (especially sedimentary rock). 5. the flat surface of a printing press on which the type form is laid in the last stage of producing a newspaper or magazine or book etc.. 6. a foundation of earth or rock supporting a road or railroad track. 
BEDAUB: spread or daub (a surface)
BEDBUG: bug of temperate regions that infests especially beds and feeds on human blood
BEDDED: having a bed or beds as specified
BEDDER: an ornamental plant suitable for planting in a flowerbed
BEDE: (Roman Catholic Church) English monk and scholar (672-735)
BEDEW: cover with drops of dew or as with dew
BEDLAM: pejorative terms for an insane asylum
BEDPAN: a shallow vessel used by a bedridden patient for defecation and urination
BEE: 1. any of numerous hairy-bodied insects including social and solitary species. 2. a social gathering to carry out some communal task or to hold competitions. 
BEECH: 1. any of several large deciduous trees with rounded spreading crowns and smooth grey bark and small sweet edible triangular nuts enclosed in burs; north temperate regions. 2. wood of any of various beech trees; used for flooring and containers and plywood and tool handles. 
BEEF: 1. cattle that are reared for their meat. 2. meat from an adult domestic bovine. 
BEEFY: muscular and heavily built
BEEP: 1. a short high tone produced as a signal or warning. 2. call, summon, or alert with a beeper. 
BEEPER: an electronic device that generates a series of beeps when the person carrying it is being paged
BEER: a general name for alcoholic beverages made by fermenting a cereal (or mixture of cereals) flavored with hops
BEERY: smelling of beer
BEET: 1. biennial Eurasian plant usually having a swollen edible root; widely cultivated as a food crop. 2. round red root vegetable. 
BEETLE: 1. jutting or overhanging. 2. fly or go in a manner resembling a beetle. 3. beat with a beetle. 
BEFALL: become of; happen to
BEFIT: accord or comport with
BEG: 1. call upon in supplication; entreat. 2. ask to obtain free. 3. dodge, avoid answering, or take for granted. 
BEGET: make children
BEGGAR: 1. be beyond the resources of. 2. reduce to beggary. 
BEGIN: 1. have a beginning, in a temporal, spatial, or evaluative sense. 2. set in motion, cause to start. 3. begin to speak or say. 5. be the first item or point, constitute the beginning or start, come first in a series. 6. have a beginning, of a temporal event. 7. have a beginning characterized in some specified way. 8. begin an event that is implied and limited by the nature or inherent function of the direct object. 9. achieve or accomplish in the least degree, usually used in the negative. 10. begin to speak, understand, read, and write a language. 
BEGUM: a Muslim woman of high rank in India or Pakistan
BEHALF: 1. as the agent of or on someone's part (usually expressed as "on behalf of" rather than "in behalf of"); . 2. for someone's benefit (usually expressed as `in behalf' rather than `on behalf' and usually with a possessive). 
BEHAVE: 1. behave in a certain manner. 2. behave well or properly. 
BEHEST: an authoritative command or request
BEHIND: 1. in or to or toward the rear. 2. remaining in a place or condition that has been left or departed from. 3. of timepieces. 4. in or into an inferior position. 5. in debt. 
BEHOLD: see with attention
BEY: 1. (formerly) a title of respect for a man in Turkey or Egypt. 2. the governor of a district or province in the Ottoman Empire. 
BEIGE: of a light greyish-brown color
BEING: the state or fact of existing
BEYOND: 1. farther along in space or time or degree. 2. on the farther side from the observer. 3. in addition. 
BEIRA: a port city in eastern Mozambique on the Mozambique Channel
BEL: 1. a logarithmic unit of sound intensity equal to 10 decibels. 2. Babylonian god of the earth; one of the supreme triad including Anu and Ea; earlier identified with En-lil. 
BELAY: 1. turn a rope round an object or person in order to secure it or him. 2. fasten a boat to a bitt, pin, or cleat. 
BELCH: a reflex that expels gas noisily from the stomach through the mouth
BELDAM: a woman of advanced age
BELEM: port city in northern Brazil in the Amazon delta; main port and commercial center for the Amazon River basin
BELFRY: a room (often at the top of a tower) where bells are hung
BELIEF: any cognitive content held as true
BELIZE: a country on the northeastern coast of Central America on the Caribbean; formerly under British control
BELL: 1. attach a bell to. 2. the sound of a bell being struck. 3. (nautical) each of the eight half-hour units of nautical time signaled by strokes of a ship's bell; eight bells signals 4:00, 8:00, or 12:00 o'clock, either a.m. or p.m.. 4. the shape of a bell. 5. a phonetician and father of Alexander Graham Bell (1819-1905). 6. English painter; sister of Virginia Woolf; prominent member of the Bloomsbury Group (1879-1961). 7. United States inventor (born in Scotland) of the telephone (1847-1922). 8. the flared opening of a tubular device. 
BELLE: a young woman who is the most charming and beautiful of several rivals
BELLY: 1. a protruding abdomen. 2. a part that bulges deeply. 3. the hollow inside of something. 4. the underpart of the body of certain vertebrates such as snakes or fish. 5. swell out or bulge out. 
BELLIS: daisy
BELLOC: English author (born in France) remembered especially for his verse for children (1870-1953)
BELLOW: 1. a very loud utterance (like the sound of an animal). 2. make a loud noise, as of animal. 
BELONG: 1. be owned by; be in the possession of. 2. be suitable or acceptable. 3. be in the right place or situation. 4. be rightly classified in a class or category. 5. be a member, adherent, inhabitant, etc. (of a group, organization, or place). 
BELOW: 1. in or to a place that is lower. 2. at a later place. 3. (in writing) see below. 
BELSEN: a Nazi concentration camp for Jews created in northwestern Germany during World War II
BELT: 1. endless loop of flexible material between two rotating shafts or pulleys. 2. deliver a blow to. 3. fasten with a belt. 4. ammunition (usually of small caliber) loaded in flexible linked strips for use in a machine gun. 
BELTED: having or provided with a belt
BELUGA: valuable source of caviar and isinglass; found in Black and Caspian seas
BEN: a mountain or tall hill
BENCH: 1. take out of a game; of players. 2. the magistrate or judge or judges sitting in court in judicial capacity to compose the court collectively. 3. the reserve players on a team. 4. (law) the seat for judges in a courtroom. 5. exhibit on a bench. 
BEND: 1. form a curve. 2. curved segment (of a road or river or railroad track etc.). 3. a town in central Oregon at the eastern foot of the Cascade Range. 4. diagonal line traversing a shield from the upper right corner to the lower left. 5. change direction. 
BENDAY: reproduce by the Benday process
BENDED: used of the back and knees; stooped
BENDER: a tool for bending
BENGAL: a region whose eastern part is now Bangladesh and whose western part is included in India
BENIGN: 1. not dangerous to health; not recurrent or progressive (especially of a tumor). 2. pleasant and beneficial in nature or influence. 3. kindness of disposition or manner. 
BENIN: a country on western coast of Africa; formerly under French control
BENNET: 1. avens of Virginia having pale or greenish yellow flowers. 2. North American white-flowered avens. 
BENT: 1. fixed in your purpose. 2. grass for pastures and lawns especially bowling and putting greens. 3. of metal e.g.. 4. a special way of doing something. 
BENZYL: the univalent radical derived from toluene
BERBER: 1. a member of an indigenous people of northern Africa. 2. a cluster of related dialects that were once the major language of northern Africa west of Egypt; now spoken mostly in Morocco. 
BERCY: butter creamed with white wine and shallots and parsley
BEREFT: unhappy in love; suffering from unrequited love
BERET: a cap with no brim or bill; made of soft cloth
BERG: Austrian composer in Schoenberg's twelve-tone music system (1885-1935)
BERGEN: a port city in southwestern Norway
BERIA: Soviet chief of secret police under Joseph Stalin; was executed by his associates in the power struggle following Stalin's death (1899-1953)
BERYL: the chief source of beryllium; colored transparent varieties are valued as gems
BERING: Danish explorer who explored the northern Pacific Ocean for the Russians and discovered the Bering Strait (1681-1741)
BERITH: the Jewish rite of circumcision performed on a male child on the eighth day of his life
BERK: a stupid person who is easy to take advantage of
BERLIN: 1. capital of Germany located in eastern Germany. 2. United States songwriter (born in Russia) who wrote more than 1500 songs and several musical comedies (1888-1989). 3. a limousine with a glass partition between the front and back seats. 
BERM: a narrow ledge or shelf typically at the top or bottom of a slope
BERN: the capital of Switzerland; located in western Switzerland
BEROE: delicately iridescent thimble-shaped ctenophores
BERRY: 1. pick or gather berries. 2. a small fruit having any of various structures, e.g., simple (grape or blueberry) or aggregate (blackberry or raspberry). 3. United States rock singer (born in 1931). 
BERTH: 1. a bed on a ship or train; usually in tiers. 2. provide with a berth. 
BESET: assail or attack on all sides: "The zebra was beset by leopards"
BESOM: a broom made of twigs tied together on a long handle
BESOT: make dull or stupid or muddle with drunkenness or infatuation
BESPOT: mark with, or as if with, spots
BESSEL: German mathematician and astronomer who made accurate measurements of stellar distances and who predicted the existence on an 8th planet (1784-1846)
BEST: 1. in a most excellent way or manner. 2. it would be sensible. 3. Canadian physiologist (born in the United States) who assisted F. G. Banting in research leading to the discovery of insulin (1899-1978). 
BESTIR: become active
BESTOW: give as a gift
BET: 1. stake on the outcome of an issue. 2. maintain with or as if with a bet. 
BETA: 1. second in order of importance. 2. preliminary or testing stage of a software or hardware product. 
BETEL: Asian pepper plant whose dried leaves are chewed with betel nut (seed of the betel palm) by southeast Asians
BETHEL: a house of worship (especially one for sailors)
BETRAY: 1. reveal unintentionally. 2. deliver to an enemy by treachery. 
BETTER: 1. comparative of `well'; in a better or more excellent manner or more advantageously or attractively or to a greater degree etc.. 2. (comparative and superlative of `well') wiser or more advantageous and hence advisable. 3. more than half. 4. from a position of superiority or authority. 
BETTOR: someone who bets
BETULA: a genus of trees of the family Betulaceae (such as birches)
BEVEL: 1. cut a bevel on; shape to a bevel. 2. a hand tool consisting of two rules that are hinged together so you can draw or measure angles of any size. 
BEVY: 1. a large gathering of people of a particular type. 2. a flock of birds (especially when gathered close together on the ground). 
BEVIN: British labor leader and statesman who played an important role in diplomacy after World War II (1884-1951)
BEWARE: be on one's guard; be cautious or wary about; be alert to
BEZANT: a gold coin of the Byzantine Empire; widely circulated in Europe in the Middle Ages
BEZEL: a sloping edge on a cutting tool
BHADON: the sixth month of the Hindu calendar
BHAGA: Hindu god of wealth and love
BHAKTI: (Hinduism) loving devotion to a deity leading to salvation and nirvana; open to all persons independent of caste or sex
BHANG: a preparation of the leaves and flowers of the hemp plant; much used in India
BHUTAN: a landlocked principality in the Himalayas to the northeast of India
BIALY: flat crusty-bottomed onion roll
BIAS: 1. slanting diagonally across the grain of a fabric. 2. cause to be biased. 
BIASED: favoring one person or side over another
BIB: 1. top part of an apron; covering the chest. 2. a napkin tied under the chin of a child while eating. 
BIBBED: having a bib
BY-BID: bid on behalf of someone else
BIBLE: 1. the sacred writings of the Christian religions. 2. a book regarded as authoritative in its field. 
BYBLOS: an ancient Mediterranean seaport that was a thriving city state in Phoenicia during the second millennium BC; was the chief port for the export of papyrus; located in Lebanon to the north of Beirut; now partially excavated
BICEPS: any skeletal muscle having two origins (but especially the muscle that flexes the forearm)
BICKER: a quarrel about petty points
BICORN: having two horns or horn-shaped parts
BID: 1. an attempt to get something. 2. ask for or request earnestly. 3. make a demand, as for a card or a suit or a show of hands. 4. make a serious effort to attain something. 
BIDDER: 1. someone who makes an offer. 2. someone who makes a bid at cards. 
BIDE: dwell
BIDENS: bur marigolds
BIDET: a basin for washing genitals and anal area
BYE: you advance to the next round in a tournament without playing an opponent
BIER: 1. a coffin along with its stand. 2. a stand to support a corpse or a coffin prior to burial. 
BIFACE: having two faces or fronts
BIFID: divided into two lobes
BIFORM: having or combining two forms
BIG: 1. significant. 2. in a major way. 3. conspicuous in position or importance. 4. prodigious. 5. feeling self-importance. 6. marked by intense physical force. 7. generous and understanding and tolerant. 8. given or giving freely. 9. in an advanced stage of pregnancy. 10. extremely well. 11. on a grand scale. 
BIGAMY: 1. having two spouses at the same time. 2. the offense of marrying someone while you have a living spouse from whom no valid divorce has occurred. 
BIGEYE: red fishes of American coastal tropical waters having very large eyes and rough scales
BIGGER: large or big relative to something else
BIGGIN: a child's tight-fitting cap; often ties under the chin
BIGHT: 1. fasten with a bight. 2. a bend or curve (especially in a coastline). 3. a broad bay formed by an indentation in the shoreline. 4. the middle part of a slack rope (as distinguished from its ends). 
BYGONE: well in the past; former
BIGOT: a prejudiced person who is intolerant of any opinions differing from his own
BIGRAM: a word that is written with two letters in an alphabetic writing system
BIHAR: a state of northeastern India
BIHARI: the Indic language spoken in Bihar (and by some people in Pakistan and Bangladesh)
BIJOU: a small and delicately worked piece
BIKINI: 1. an atoll in the Marshall Islands; formerly used by the United States as a site for testing nuclear weapons. 2. a woman's very brief bathing suit. 
BYLAW: a rule adopted by an organization in order to regulate its own affairs and the behavior of its members
BILE: a digestive juice secreted by the liver and stored in the gallbladder; aids in the digestion of fats
BILGE: 1. cause to leak. 2. take in water at the bilge. 
BILGES: in a vessel with two hulls, an enclosed area between the frames at each side
BILGY: smelling like bilge water
BILK: 1. cheat somebody out of what is due, especially money. 2. evade payment to. 
BILL: 1. a statute in draft before it becomes law. 2. advertise especially by posters or placards. 3. a piece of paper money (especially one issued by a central bank). 4. the entertainment offered at a public presentation. 5. a list of particulars (as a playbill or bill of fare). 6. a long-handled saw with a curved blade. 7. a brim that projects to the front to shade the eyes. 
BILLED: having a beak or bill as specified
BILLET: lodging for military personnel (especially in a private home)
BILLY: male goat
BILLYO: an unimaginably large amount
BILLOW: 1. rise up as if in waves. 2. move with great difficulty. 3. rise and move, as in waves or billows. 
BILOXI: 1. a member of the Siouan people of southeastern Mississippi. 2. an old town in southern Mississippi on the Gulf of Mexico. 3. the Siouan language spoken by the Biloxi. 
BIMBO: a young woman indulged by rich and powerful older men
BIN: 1. store in bins. 2. the quantity contained in a bin. 
BINARY: 1. consisting of two (units or components or elements or terms). 2. of or pertaining to a number system have 2 as its base. 
BINATE: growing in two parts or in pairs
BIND: 1. something that hinders as if with bonds. 2. create social or emotional ties. 3. make fast; tie or secure, with or as if with a rope. 4. wrap around with something so as to cover or enclose. 5. provide with a binding. 6. form a chemical bond with. 
BINDER: 1. a machine that cuts grain and binds it in sheaves. 2. something used to bind separate particles together or facilitate adhesion to a surface. 3. holds loose papers or magazines. 4. something used to tie or bind. 
BINET: French psychologist remembered for his studies of the intellectual development of children (1857-1911)
BIOME: a major biotic community characterized by the dominant forms of plant life and the prevailing climate
BIONIC: 1. of or relating to bionics. 2. having particular physiological functions augmented or replaced by electronic or electromechanical components. 
BIONT: a discrete unit of living matter
BIOPSY: examination of tissues or liquids from the living body to determine the existence or cause of a disease
BIOTA: all the plant and animal life of a particular region
BIOTIC: of or relating to living organisms
BIOTIN: a B vitamin that aids in body growth
BYPASS: 1. a surgically created shunt (usually around a damaged part). 2. avoid something unpleasant or laborious. 
BIPED: an animal with two feet
BIRCH: 1. consisting of or made of wood of the birch tree. 2. any betulaceous tree or shrub of the genus Betula having a thin peeling bark. 3. a switch consisting of a twig or a bundle of twigs from a birch tree; used to hit people as punishment. 
BIRD: 1. watch and study birds in their natural habitat. 2. the flesh of a bird or fowl (wild or domestic) used as food. 
BYRD: 1. English organist and composer of church music; master of 16th century polyphony; was granted a monopoly in music printing with Thomas Tallis (1543-1623). 2. explorer and United States naval officer; led expeditions to explore Antarctica (1888-1957). 
BIRDIE: shoot in one stroke under par
BIRL: cause a floating log to rotate by treading
BYRON: English romantic poet notorious for his rebellious and unconventional lifestyle (1788-1824)
BIRR: the basic unit of money in Ethiopia; equal to 100 cents
BIRTH: 1. the time when something begins (especially life). 2. the event of being born. 3. a baby born; an offspring. 
BISE: a dry cold north wind in southeastern France
BISECT: cut in half or cut in two
BISHOP: 1. a senior member of the Christian clergy having spiritual and administrative authority; appointed in Christian churches to oversee priests or ministers; considered in some churches to be successors of the twelve Apostles of Christ. 2. port wine mulled with oranges and cloves. 3. (chess) a piece that can be moved diagonally over unoccupied squares of the same color. 
BISON: any of several large humped bovids having shaggy manes and large heads and short horns
BISQUE: a thick cream soup made from shellfish
BISSAU: the capital of Guinea-Bissau
BYSSUS: tuft of strong filaments by which e.g. a mussel makes itself fast to a fixed surface
BISTER: a water-soluble brownish-yellow pigment made by boiling wood soot
BISTRO: a small informal restaurant; serves wine
BIT: 1. a small fragment of something broken off from the whole. 2. piece of metal held in horse's mouth by reins and used to control the horse while riding. 3. a unit of measurement of information (from binary + digit); the amount of information in a system having two equiprobable states. 4. the part of a key that enters a lock and lifts the tumblers. 5. the cutting part of a drill; usually pointed and threaded and is replaceable in a brace or bitstock or drill press. 
BITCH: 1. an unpleasant difficulty. 2. female of any member of the dog family. 
BITCHY: marked by or arising from malice
BITE: 1. to grip, cut off, or tear with or as if with the teeth or jaws. 2. a light informal meal. 3. (angling) an instance of a fish taking the bait. 4. the act of gripping or chewing off with the teeth and jaws. 5. a portion removed from the whole. 6. cause a sharp or stinging pain or discomfort. 7. penetrate or cut, as with a knife. 
BYTE: a sequence of 8 bits (enough to represent one character of alphanumeric data) processed as a single unit of information
BITER: someone who bites
BITING: causing a sharply painful or stinging sensation; used especially of cold
BITIS: a genus of Viperidae
BITMAP: an image represented as a two dimensional array of brightness values for pixels
BITT: secure with a bitt
BITTER: 1. make bitter. 2. very difficult to accept or bear. 3. expressive of severe grief or regret. 4. proceeding from or exhibiting great hostility or animosity. 5. causing a sharp and acrid taste experience. 
BITTY: (used informally) very small
BYWAY: a side road little traveled (as in the countryside)
BIZET: French composer best known for his operas (1838-1875)
BLACK: 1. being of the achromatic color of maximum darkness; having little or no hue owing to absorption of almost all incident light. 2. marked by anger or resentment or hostility. 3. offering little or no hope. 4. stemming from evil characteristics or forces; wicked or dishonorable. 5. (of events) having extremely unfortunate or dire consequences; bringing ruin. 6. (of the face) made black especially as with suffused blood. 7. of or belonging to a racial group having dark skin especially of sub-Saharan African origin. 8. extremely dark. 9. harshly ironic or sinister. 10. (of intelligence operations) deliberately misleading. 11. (used of conduct or character) deserving or bringing disgrace or shame. 12. (of coffee) without cream or sugar. 13. soiled with dirt or soot. 
BLADE: 1. especially a leaf of grass or the broad portion of a leaf as distinct from the petiole. 2. a dashing young man. 3. something long and thin resembling a blade of grass. 4. a cut of beef from the shoulder blade. 5. a broad flat body part (as of the shoulder or tongue). 6. the part of the skate that slides on the ice. 7. flat surface that rotates and pushes against air or water. 8. the flat part of a tool or weapon that (usually) has a cutting edge. 
BLADED: 1. bearing or characterized by a blade or sword; often used in combination. 2. having a blade or blades; often used in combination. 3. composed of thin flat plates resembling a knife blade. 
BLAE: of bluish-black or grey-blue
BLAHS: a general feeling of boredom and dissatisfaction
BLAIN: an inflammatory swelling or sore
BLAIR: British statesman who became prime minister in 1997 (born in 1953)
BLAKE: visionary British poet and painter (1757-1827)
BLAME: 1. harass with constant criticism. 2. put or pin the blame on. 3. attribute responsibility to. 
BLANC: a white sauce of fat, broth, and vegetables (used especially with braised meat)
BLANCH: cook (vegetables) briefly
BLAND: 1. lacking taste or flavor or tang. 2. lacking stimulating characteristics; uninteresting. 
BLANK: 1. not charged with a bullet. 2. a cartridge containing an explosive charge but no bullet. 3. (of a surface) not written or printed on. 4. void of expression. 
BLARE: a loud harsh or strident noise
BLASE: 1. very sophisticated especially because of surfeit; versed in the ways of the world. 2. uninterested because of frequent exposure or indulgence. 3. nonchalantly unconcerned. 
BLAST: 1. make a strident sound. 2. apply a draft or strong wind to to. 3. use explosives on. 4. create by using explosives. 5. make with or as if with an explosion. 6. fire a shot. 7. shatter as if by explosion. 8. shrivel or wither or mature imperfectly. 
BLATTA: type genus of the Blattidae: cockroaches infesting buildings worldwide
BLAZE: 1. shine brightly and intensively. 2. indicate by marking trees with blazes. 3. burn brightly and intensely. 4. move rapidly and as if blazing. 
BLAZER: lightweight single-breasted jacket; often striped in the colors of a club or school
BLEACH: 1. remove color from. 2. the act of whitening something by bleaching it (exposing it to sunlight or using a chemical bleaching agent). 3. make whiter or lighter. 
BLEAK: unpleasantly cold and damp
BLEARY: 1. tired to the point of exhaustion. 2. indistinct or hazy in outline. 
BLEAT: 1. talk whiningly. 2. cry plaintively. 
BLEBBY: covered with small blisters
BLEED: 1. draw blood. 2. get or extort (money or other possessions) from someone. 3. drain of liquid or steam. 
BLEEP: emit a single short high-pitched signal
BLEND: 1. combine into one. 2. blend or harmonize. 3. mix together different elements. 
BLENNY: small usually scaleless fishes with comb-like teeth living about rocky shores; are territorial and live in holes between rocks
BLESS: 1. give a benediction to. 2. confer prosperity or happiness on. 3. make the sign of the cross over someone in order to call on God for protection; consecrate. 
BLETIA: any of various orchids of the genus Bletia having pseudobulbs and erect leafless racemes of large purple or pink flowers
BLEU: cheese containing a blue mold
BLIDA: a city in northern Algeria at the foot of the Atlas Mountains to the southwest of Algiers
BLIGH: British admiral; was captain of the H.M.S. Bounty in 1789 when part of the crew mutinied and set him afloat in an open boat; a few weeks later he arrived safely in Timor 4,000 miles away (1754-1817)
BLIGHT: 1. cause to suffer a blight. 2. any plant disease resulting in withering without rotting. 
BLIMP: a small nonrigid airship used for observation or as a barrage balloon
BLIND: 1. unable to see. 2. unable or unwilling to perceive or understand. 3. not based on reason or evidence. 
BLINI: Russian pancake of buckwheat flour and yeast; usually served with caviar and sour cream
BLINK: briefly shut the eyes
BLINKS: small Indian lettuce of northern regions
BLINTZ: (Judaism) thin pancake folded around a filling and fried or baked
BLIP: 1. a sudden minor shock or meaningless interruption. 2. a radar echo displayed so as to show the position of a reflecting surface. 
BLISS: a state of extreme happiness
BLITHE: 1. lacking or showing a lack of due concern. 2. carefree and happy and lighthearted. 
BLITZ: 1. a swift and violent military offensive with intensive aerial bombardment. 2. attack suddenly and without warning. 
BLOAT: 1. become bloated or swollen or puff up. 2. make bloated or swollen. 
BLOB: an indistinct shapeless form
BLOC: a group of countries in special alliance
BLOCK: 1. a solid piece of something (usually having flat rectangular sides). 2. a rectangular area in a city surrounded by streets and usually containing several buildings. 3. a three-dimensional shape with six square or rectangular sides. 4. a number or quantity of related things dealt with as a unit. 5. run on a block system. 6. interrupt the normal function of by means of anesthesia. 7. an inability to remember or think of something you normally can do; often caused by emotional tension. 8. stamp or emboss a title or design on a book with a block. 9. support, secure, or raise with a block. 10. shape by using a block. 11. shape into a block or blocks. 
BLOLLY: evergreen climbing shrub of southern Florida and West Indies grown for its racemes of fragrant white to creamy flowers followed by globose white succulent berries
BLOND: 1. being or having light colored skin and hair and usually blue or grey eyes. 2. a light grayish yellow to near white. 
BLOOD: 1. smear with blood, as in a hunting initiation rite, where the face of a person is smeared with the blood of the kill. 2. temperament or disposition. 3. people viewed as members of a group. 
BLOODY: extremely
BLOOM: 1. the best time of youth. 2. a rosy color (especially in the cheeks) taken as a sign of good health. 3. produce or yield flowers. 
BLOT: 1. an act that brings discredit to the person who does it. 2. dry (ink) with blotting paper. 
BLOTCH: an irregularly shaped spot
BLOUSE: a top worn by women
BLOW: 1. exhale hard. 2. be blowing or storming. 3. forceful exhalation through the nose or mouth. 4. free of obstruction by blowing air through. 5. make a sound as if blown. 6. shape by blowing. 7. spend lavishly or wastefully on. 8. sound by having air expelled through a tube. 9. play or sound a wind instrument. 10. cause air to go in, on, or through. 11. cause to move by means of an air current. 12. spout moist air from the blowhole. 13. lay eggs. 14. cause to be revealed and jeopardized. 15. allow to regain its breath. 16. burst suddenly. 
BLOWER: a device that produces a current of air
BLOWY: abounding in or exposed to the wind or breezes
BLOWN: 1. being moved or acted upon by moving air or vapor. 2. breathing laboriously or convulsively. 
BLOWSY: characteristic of or befitting a slut or slattern; used especially of women
BLUE: 1. of the color intermediate between green and violet; having a color similar to that of a clear unclouded sky. 2. used to signify the Union forces in the American Civil War (who wore blue uniforms). 3. any organization or party whose uniforms or badges are blue. 4. morally rigorous and strict. 5. suggestive of sexual impropriety. 6. causing dejection. 
BLUES: 1. a type of folksong that originated among Black Americans at the beginning of the 20th century; has a melancholy sound from repeated use of blue notes. 2. a state of depression. 
BLUFF: 1. very steep; having a prominent and almost vertical front. 2. bluntly direct and outspoken but good-natured. 3. the act of bluffing in poker; deception by a false show of confidence in the strength of your cards. 
BLUING: 1. used to whiten laundry or hair or give it a bluish tinge. 2. a process that makes something blue (or bluish). 
BLUNT: 1. having a broad or rounded end. 2. devoid of any qualifications or disguise or adornment. 3. used of a knife or other blade; not sharp. 4. characterized by directness in manner or speech; without subtlety or evasion. 
BLUR: 1. a hazy or indistinct representation. 2. to make less distinct or clear. 3. make dim or indistinct. 4. become vague or indistinct. 
BLUSH: 1. become rosy or reddish. 2. turn red, as if in embarrassment or shame. 
BOA: any of several chiefly tropical constrictors with vestigial hind limbs
BOAR: an uncastrated male hog
BOARD: 1. get on board of (trains, buses, ships, aircraft, etc.). 2. live and take one's meals at or in. 3. lodge and take meals (at). 4. provide food and lodging (for). 5. a flat portable surface (usually rectangular) designed for board games. 
BOARDS: 1. the stage of a theater. 2. the boarding that surrounds an ice hockey rink. 
BOAST: show off
BOAT: ride in a boat on water
BOATER: a stiff hat made of straw with a flat crown
BOB: 1. a hair style for women and children; a short haircut all around. 2. a hanging weight, especially a metal ball on a string. 3. cut hair in the style of a bob. 4. a short abrupt inclination (as of the head). 5. move up and down repeatedly. 
BOBBY: an informal term for a British policeman
BOBBIN: a winder around which thread or tape or film or other flexible materials can be wound
BOBBLE: the momentary juggling of a batted or thrown baseball
BOBCAT: small lynx of North America
BOCCE: Italian bowling played on a long narrow dirt court
BOCK: a very strong lager traditionally brewed in the fall and aged through the winter for consumption in the spring
BODE: indicate by signs
BODEGA: a small Hispanic shop selling wine and groceries
BODY: 1. invest with or as with a body; give body to. 2. a group of persons associated by some common tie or occupation and regarded as an entity. 3. a natural object consisting of a dead animal or person. 4. an individual 3-dimensional object that has mass and that is distinguishable from other objects. 5. a collection of particulars considered as a system. 6. the central message of a communication. 7. the main mass of a thing. 8. the external structure of a vehicle. 
BODICE: part of a dress above the waist
BODIED: 1. having a body or a body of a specified kind; often used in combination. 2. possessing or existing in bodily form. 
BODILY: 1. in bodily form. 2. affecting or characteristic of the body as opposed to the mind or spirit. 3. having or relating to a physical material body. 
BODKIN: 1. formerly a long hairpin; usually with an ornamental head. 2. a small sharp-pointed tool for punching holes in leather or fabric. 3. a blunt needle for threading ribbon through loops. 
BODONI: Italian printer who designed the Bodoni font (1740-1813)
BOEHME: German mystic and theosophist who founded modern theosophy; influenced George Fox (1575-1624)
BOFFIN: (British slang) a scientist or technician engaged in military research
BOFFO: resoundingly successful and popular
BOG: wet spongy ground of decomposing vegetation; has poorer drainage than a swamp; soil is unfit for cultivation but can be cut and dried and used for fuel
BOGEY: 1. to shoot in one stroke over par. 2. (golf) a score of one stroke over par on a hole. 
BOGGY: (of soil) soft and watery
BOGGLE: 1. startle with amazement or fear. 2. hesitate when confronted with a problem, or when in doubt or fear. 
BOGY: an unidentified (and possibly enemy) aircraft
BOGOTA: capital and largest city of Colombia; located in central Colombia on a high fertile plain
BOGUS: fraudulent; having a misleading appearance
BOHR: Danish physicist who studied atomic structure and radiations; the Bohr theory of the atom accounted for the spectrum of hydrogen (1885-1962)
BOY: 1. a friendly informal reference to a grown man. 2. (ethnic slur) offensive and disparaging term for Black man. 
BOIDAE: boas and pythons
BOYISH: befitting or characteristic of a young boy
BOIL: 1. come to the boiling point and change from a liquid to vapor. 2. immerse or be immersed in a boiling liquid, often for cooking purposes. 3. bring to, or maintain at, the boiling point. 
BOILED: cooked in hot water
BOILER: sealed vessel where water is converted to steam
BOYNE: a battle in the War of the Grand Alliance in Ireland in 1690; William III defeated the deposed James II and so ended the Catholicism that had been reintroduced in England by the Stuarts
BOISE: the capital and largest city of Idaho
BOLA: a rope with weights attached to the ends; is thrown to entangle the legs of an animal; of South American origin
BOLD: 1. fearless and daring. 2. clear and distinct. 
BOLDLY: with boldness, in a bold manner
BOLE: 1. a soft oily clay used as a pigment (especially a reddish brown pigment). 2. a Chadic language spoken in northern Nigeria and closely related to Hausa. 
BOLEYN: the second wife of Henry VIII and mother of Elizabeth I; was executed on a charge of adultery (1507-1536)
BOLERO: 1. music written in the rhythm of the bolero dance. 2. a short jacket; worn mostly by women. 3. a Spanish dance in triple time accompanied by guitar and castanets. 
BOLETE: any fungus of the family Boletaceae
BOLIDE: an especially luminous meteor (sometimes exploding)
BOLL: the rounded seed-bearing capsule of a cotton or flax plant
BOLO: long heavy knife with a single edge; of Philippine origin
BOLSHY: obstreperous
BOLT: 1. secure or lock with a bolt. 2. swallow hastily. 3. a roll of cloth or wallpaper of a definite length. 4. a screw that screws into a nut to form a fastener. 5. make or roll into bolts. 6. move or jump suddenly. 
BOLTI: important food fish of the Nile and other rivers of Africa and Asia Minor
BOLUS: 1. a small round soft mass (as of chewed food). 2. a large pill; used especially in veterinary medicine. 
BOMB: an explosive device fused to explode under specific conditions
BOMBAX: trees of chiefly South America
BOMBER: 1. a military aircraft that drops bombs during flight. 2. a person who plants bombs. 3. a large sandwich made of a long crusty roll split lengthwise and filled with meats and cheese (and tomato and onion and lettuce and condiments); different names are used in different sections of the United States. 
BOMBYX: type genus of the Bombycidae: Chinese silkworm moth
BOMBUS: bumblebees
BONASA: ruffed grouse
BONBON: a candy that usually has a center of fondant or fruit or nuts coated in chocolate
BOND: 1. a certificate of debt (usually interest-bearing or discounted) that is issued by a government or corporation in order to raise money; the issuer is required to pay a fixed sum annually until maturity and then a fixed sum to repay the principal. 2. a superior quality of strong durable white writing paper; originally made for printing documents. 3. United States civil rights leader who was elected to the legislature in Georgia but was barred from taking his seat because he opposed the Vietnam War (born 1940). 4. British secret operative 007 in novels by Ian Fleming. 5. issue bonds on. 6. bring together in a common cause or emotion. 
BONDUC: tropical tree with large prickly pods of seeds that resemble beans and are used for jewelry and rosaries
BONE: 1. consisting of or made up of bone. 2. remove the bones from. 3. a shade of white the color of bleached bones. 
BONED: 1. having had the bones removed. 2. having bones as specified. 
BONES: a percussion instrument consisting of a pair of hollow pieces of wood or bone (usually held between the thumb and fingers) that are made to click together (as by Spanish dancers) in rhythm with the dance
BONETE: a mountain in the Andes in Argentina (22,546 feet high)
BONG: ring loudly and deeply
BONGO: 1. a small drum; played with the hands. 2. large forest antelope of central Africa having a reddish-brown coat with white stripes and spiral horns. 
BONY: 1. very thin especially from disease or hunger or cold. 2. having bones especially many or prominent bones. 
BONITO: 1. flesh of mostly Pacific food fishes of the genus Sarda of the family Scombridae; related to but smaller than tuna. 2. fish whose flesh is dried and flaked for Japanese cookery; may be same species as skipjack tuna. 3. any of various scombroid fishes intermediate in size and characteristics between mackerels and tunas. 
BONN: a city in western Germany on the Rhine River; was the capital of West Germany between 1949 and 1989
BONNET: dress in a bonnet
BONNY: very pleasing to the eye
BONSAI: a dwarfed ornamental tree or shrub grown in a tray or shallow pot
BONUS: 1. anything that tends to arouse. 2. an additional payment (or other remuneration) to employees as a means of increasing output. 
BONZER: remarkable or wonderful
BOO: show displeasure, as after a performance or speech
BOOBY: small tropical gannet having a bright bill or bright feet or both
BOODLE: informal terms for money
BOOGER: dried nasal mucus
BOOGIE: dance to boogie music
BOOK: 1. engage for a performance. 2. physical objects consisting of a number of pages bound together. 3. a collection of playing cards satisfying the rules of a card game. 4. a collection of rules or prescribed standards on the basis of which decisions are made. 5. a major division of a long written composition. 6. a number of sheets (ticket or stamps etc.) bound together on one edge. 7. record a charge in a police register. 8. register in a hotel booker. 
BOOKED: reserved in advance
BOOKER: someone who engages a person or company for performances
BOOLE: English mathematician; creator of Boolean algebra (1815-1864)
BOOM: 1. make a resonant sound, like artillery. 2. a state of economic prosperity. 3. a sudden happening that brings good fortune (as a sudden opportunity to make money). 4. make a deep hollow sound. 5. grow vigorously. 
BOON: very close and convivial
BOONE: an American pioneer and guide and explorer (1734-1820)
BOOST: 1. the act of giving hope or support to someone. 2. the act of giving a push. 3. give a boost to; be beneficial to. 4. increase or raise. 5. push or shove upward, as if from below or behind. 
BOOT: 1. kick; give a boot to. 2. cause to load (an operating system) and start the initial processes. 3. protective casing for something that resembles a leg. 4. an instrument of torture that is used to heat or crush the foot and leg. 5. a form of foot torture in which the feet are encased in iron and slowly crushed. 
BOOTED: wearing boots
BOOTEE: a slipper that is soft and wool (for babies)
BOOTES: a constellation in the northern hemisphere near Ursa Major
BOOTH: 1. a table (in a restaurant or bar) surrounded by two high-backed benches. 2. small area set off by walls for special use. 3. United States actor and assassin of President Lincoln (1838-1865). 4. a small shop at a fair; for selling goods or entertainment. 
BOP: 1. an early form of modern jazz (originating around 1940). 2. dance the bebop. 
BORAGE: 1. hairy blue-flowered European annual herb long used in herbal medicine and eaten raw as salad greens or cooked like spinach. 2. an herb whose leaves are used to flavor sauces and punches; young leaves can be eaten in salads or cooked. 
BORAGO: perennial herbs of the Mediterranean region
BORATE: a salt or ester of boric acid
BORAX: an ore of boron consisting of hydrated sodium borate; used as a flux or cleansing agent
BORDER: 1. lie adjacent to another or share a boundary. 2. provide with a border or edge. 
BORE: 1. cause to be bored. 2. diameter of a tube or gun barrel. 3. a hole or passage made by a drill; usually made for exploratory purposes. 4. make a hole, especially with a pointed power or hand tool. 
BOREAL: 1. relating to or marked by qualities associated with the north wind. 2. toward or located in the north. 3. comprising or throughout far northern regions. 
BOREAS: (Greek mythology) the god who personified the north wind
BORED: tired of the world
BORGES: Argentinian writer remembered for his short stories (1899-1986)
BORGIA: 1. Italian noblewoman and patron of the arts (1480-1519). 2. Italian cardinal and military leader; model for Machiavelli's prince (1475-1507). 
BORIC: of or relating to or derived from or containing boron
BORING: 1. the act of drilling a hole in the earth in the hope of producing petroleum. 2. so lacking in interest as to cause mental weariness. 
BORN: brought into existence
BORNEO: 3rd largest island in the world; in the western Pacific to the north of Java; largely covered by dense jungle and rain forest; part of the Malay Archipelago
BORON: a trivalent metalloid element; occurs both in a hard black crystal and in the form of a yellow or brown powder
BORROW: get temporarily
BORSCH: a Russian or Polish soup usually containing beet juice as a foundation
BORZOI: tall fast-moving dog breed
BOS: wild and domestic cattle; in some classifications placed in the subfamily Bovinae or tribe Bovini
BOSC: greenish-yellow pear
BOSCH: Dutch painter (1450-1516)
BOSE: Indian physicist who with Albert Einstein proposed statistical laws based on the indistinguishability of particles; led to the description of fundamental particles that later came to be known as bosons
BOSK: a small wooded area
BOSKY: covered with or consisting of bushes or thickets
BOSNIA: the northern part of Bosnia-Herzegovina
BOSOM: 1. hide in one's bosom. 2. a person's breast or chest. 3. cloth that covers the chest or breasts. 
BOSOMY: (of a woman's body) having a large bosom and pleasing curves
BOSON: any particle that obeys Bose-Einstein statistics but not the Pauli exclusion principle; all nuclei with an even mass number are bosons
BOSS: 1. a person responsible for hiring workers. 2. a person who exercises control and makes decisions. 3. exceptionally good. 
BOSTON: state capital and largest city of Massachusetts; a major center for banking and financial services
BOT: botfly larva; typically develops inside the body of a horse or sheep or human
BOTA: a wine bottle made of leather
BOTANY: the branch of biology that studies plants
BOTCH: make a mess of, destroy or ruin
BOTCHY: poorly done
BOTFLY: stout-bodied hairy dipterous fly whose larvae are parasites on humans and other mammals
BOTH: (used with count nouns) two considered together; the two
BOTHER: 1. intrude or enter uninvited. 2. make nervous or agitated. 3. make confused or perplexed or puzzled. 
BOTTLE: 1. store (liquids or gases) in bottles. 2. put into bottles. 3. a vessel fitted with a flexible teat and filled with milk or formula; used as a substitute for breast feeding infants and very young children. 
BOTTOM: 1. situated at the bottom or lowest position. 2. the lowest rank. 3. the second half of an inning; while the home team is at bat. 4. a cargo ship. 
BOUCLE: a fabric of uneven yarn that has an uneven knobby effect
BOUGH: any of the larger branches of a tree
BOULEZ: French composer of serial music (born in 1925)
BOULLE: an inlaid furniture decoration; tortoiseshell and yellow and white metal form scrolls in cabinetwork
BOUNCE: 1. spring back; spring away from an impact. 2. move up and down repeatedly. 3. hit something so that it bounces. 4. come back after being refused. 5. leap suddenly. 6. refuse to accept and send back. 7. eject from the premises. 
BOUNCY: elastic; rebounds readily
BOUND: 1. held with another element, substance or material in chemical or physical union. 2. confined by bonds. 3. secured with a cover or binding; often used as a combining form. 4. (usually followed by `to') governed by fate. 5. headed or intending to head in a certain direction; often used as a combining form as in `college-bound students'. 6. bound by an oath. 7. confined in the bowels. 
BOUNTY: 1. payment or reward (especially from a government) for acts such as catching criminals or killing predatory animals or enlisting in the military. 2. generosity evidenced by a willingness to give freely. 3. a ship of the British navy; in 1789 part of the crew mutinied against their commander William Bligh and set him afloat in an open boat. 
BOURN: 1. an archaic term for a boundary. 2. an archaic term for a goal or destination. 
BOURSE: the stock exchange in Paris
BOUT: 1. a period of illness. 2. a contest or fight (especially between boxers or wrestlers). 
BOVID: hollow-horned ruminants
BOVINE: 1. of or relating to or belonging to the genus Bos (cattle). 2. dull and slow-moving and stolid; like an ox. 
BOW: 1. bend one's knee or body, or lower one's head. 2. a slightly curved piece of resilient wood with taut horsehair strands; used in playing certain stringed instruments. 3. bend the head or the upper part of the body in a gesture of respect or greeting. 4. a weapon for shooting arrows, composed of a curved piece of resilient wood with a taut cord to propel the arrow. 5. play on a string instrument with a bow. 6. bending the head or body or knee as a sign of reverence or submission or shame or greeting. 7. an appearance by actors or performers at the end of the concert or play in order to acknowledge the applause of the audience. 8. a decorative interlacing of ribbons. 9. a stroke with a curved piece of wood with taut horsehair strands that is used in playing stringed instruments. 
BOWED: 1. of a stringed instrument; sounded by stroking with a bow. 2. showing an excessively deferential manner. 
BOWELS: the center of the Earth
BOWERY: like a bower; leafy and shady
BOWFIN: primitive long-bodied carnivorous freshwater fish with a very long dorsal fin; found in sluggish waters of North America
BOWIE: United States pioneer and hero of the Texas revolt against Mexico; he shared command of the garrison that resisted the Mexican attack on the Alamo where he died (1796-1836)
BOWING: managing the bow in playing a stringed instrument
BOWL: 1. roll (a ball). 2. hurl a cricket ball from one end of the pitch towards the batsman at the other end. 3. engage in the sport of bowling. 4. the quantity contained in a bowl. 5. a wooden ball (with flattened sides so that it rolls on a curved course) used in the game of lawn bowling. 6. a small round container that is open at the top for holding tobacco. 
BOWLEG: a leg bowed outward at the knee (or below the knee)
BOWLER: 1. a cricketer who delivers the ball to the batsman in cricket. 2. a player who rolls balls down an alley at pins. 
BOWSE: haul with a tackle
BOX: 1. put into a box. 2. hit with the fist. 3. engage in a boxing match. 4. a rectangular drawing. 5. evergreen shrubs or small trees. 6. any one of several designated areas on a ball field where the batter or catcher or coaches are positioned. 7. the driver's seat on a coach. 8. separate partitioned area in a public place for a few people. 9. a blow with the hand (usually on the ear). 
BOXCAR: a freight car with roof and sliding doors in the sides
BOXED: 1. enclosed in or set off by a border or box. 2. enclosed in or as if in a box. 
BOXER: 1. someone who fights with his fists for sport. 2. a member of a nationalistic Chinese secret society that led an unsuccessful rebellion in 1900 against foreign interests in China. 3. a breed of stocky medium-sized short-haired dog with a brindled coat and square-jawed muzzle developed in Germany. 
BOXING: fighting with the fists
BRACE: 1. prepare (oneself) for something unpleasant or difficult. 2. either of two punctuation marks ({ or }) used to enclose textual material. 3. a rope on a square-rigged ship that is used to swing a yard about and secure it. 4. elastic straps that hold trousers up (usually used in the plural). 5. an appliance that corrects dental irregularities. 6. a carpenter's tool having a crank handle for turning and a socket to hold a bit for boring. 7. a structural member used to stiffen a framework. 8. support or hold steady and make steadfast, with or as if with a brace. 9. support by bracing. 
BRACED: 1. positioned so as to be ready for confrontation or danger. 2. held up by braces or buttresses. 
BRACER: 1. a protective covering for the wrist or arm that is used in archery and fencing and other sports. 2. a tonic or restorative (especially a drink of liquor). 
BRACT: a modified leaf or leaflike part just below and protecting an inflorescence
BRAD: fasten with brads
BRAE: a slope or hillside
BRAG: an instance of boastful talk
BRAGA: an ancient city in northern Portugal
BRAGG: Confederate general during the American Civil War who was defeated by Grant in the battle of Chattanooga (1817-1876)
BRAGI: (Norse mythology) god of poetry and music; son of Odin
BRAHE: Danish astronomer whose observations of the planets provided the basis for Kepler's laws of planetary motion (1546-1601)
BRAHMA: the Creator; one of the three major deities in the later Hindu pantheon
BRAHMI: a script (probably adapted from the Aramaic about the 7th century BC) from which later Indian scripts developed
BRAHMS: 1. German composer who developed the romantic style of both lyrical and classical music (1833-1897). 2. the music of Brahms. 
BRAHUI: 1. a member of a Dravidian people living in Pakistan. 2. an isolated Dravidian language spoken by the Brahui in Pakistan. 
BRAY: 1. the cry of an ass. 2. laugh loudly and harshly. 
BRAID: 1. make by braiding or interlacing. 2. decorate with braids or ribbons. 3. form or weave into a braid or braids. 
BRAIL: 1. take in a sail with a brail. 2. haul fish aboard with brails. 
BRAIN: 1. hit on the head. 2. kill by smashing someone's skull. 3. the brain of certain animals used as meat. 
BRAINY: having or marked by unusual and impressive intelligence
BRAISE: cook in liquid
BRAKE: 1. stop travelling by applying a brake. 2. cause to stop by applying the brakes. 3. an area thickly overgrown usually with one kind of plant. 4. anything that slows or hinders a process. 
BRAKY: 1. covered with brambles and ferns and other undergrowth. 2. abounding with bracken. 
BRAN: 1. broken husks of the seeds of cereal grains that are separated from the flour by sifting. 2. food prepared from the husks of cereal grains. 
BRANCH: 1. a division of some larger or more complex organization. 2. divide into two or more branches so as to form a fork. 3. a part of a forked or branching shape. 4. a stream or river connected to a larger one. 
BRAND: 1. a recognizable kind. 2. mark with a brand or trademark. 3. a piece of wood that has been burned or is burning. 4. burn with a branding iron to indicate ownership; of animals. 
BRANDY: distilled from wine or fermented fruit juice
BRANDT: German statesman who as chancellor of West Germany worked to reduce tensions with eastern Europe (1913-1992)
BRANT: small dark geese that breed in the north and migrate southward
BRANTA: wild geese
BRAQUE: French painter who led the cubist movement (1882-1963)
BRASH: offensively bold
BRASOV: a city in central Romania in the foothills of the Transylvanian Alps
BRASS: 1. an alloy of copper and zinc. 2. a wind instrument that consists of a brass tube (usually of variable length) that is blown by means of a cup-shaped or funnel-shaped mouthpiece. 3. an ornament or utensil made of brass. 4. a memorial made of brass. 
BRASSY: 1. resembling the sound of a brass instrument. 2. tastelessly showy. 
BRATTY: (used of an ill-mannered child) impolitely unruly
BRAVE: 1. possessing or displaying courage; able to face and deal with danger or fear without flinching. 2. people who are brave. 3. brightly colored and showy. 
BRAVO: 1. a cry of approval as from an audience at the end of great performance. 2. applaud with shouts of `bravo' or `brava'. 
BRAWL: 1. a noisy fight in a crowd. 2. to quarrel noisily, angrily or disruptively. 
BRAWN: possessing muscular strength
BRAWNY: (of a person) possessing physical strength and weight; rugged and powerful
BRAZE: solder together by using hard solder with a high melting point
BRAZEN: 1. face with defiance or impudence. 2. made of or resembling brass (as in color or hardness). 
BRAZIL: the largest Latin American country and the largest Portuguese speaking country in the world; located in the central and northeastern part of South America; world's leading coffee exporter
BRAZOS: a river that rises in Mexico and flows across Texas into the Gulf of Mexico
BREACH: 1. a failure to perform some promised act or obligation. 2. an opening (especially a gap in a dike or fortification). 
BREAD: cover with bread crumbs
BREAK: 1. become separated into pieces or fragments. 2. force out or release suddenly and often violently something pent up. 3. prevent completion. 4. the opening shot that scatters the balls in billiards or pool. 5. (tennis) a score consisting of winning a game when your opponent was serving. 6. an act of delaying or interrupting the continuity. 7. a sudden dash. 8. come into being. 9. render inoperable or ineffective. 10. ruin completely. 11. destroy the integrity of; usually by force; cause to separate into pieces or fragments. 12. move away or escape suddenly. 13. scatter or part. 14. interrupt a continued activity. 15. make a rupture in the ranks of the enemy or one's own by quitting or fleeing. 16. curl over and fall apart in surf or foam, of waves. 17. be broken in. 18. come to an end. 19. vary or interrupt a uniformity or continuity. 20. cause to give up a habit. 21. give up. 22. come forth or begin from a state of latency. 23. happen or take place. 24. cause the failure or ruin of. 25. invalidate by judicial action. 26. change directions suddenly. 27. emerge from the surface of a body of water. 28. exchange for smaller units of money. 29. destroy the completeness of a set of related items. 30. make the opening shot that scatters the balls. 31. separate from a clinch, in boxing. 32. go to pieces. 33. break a piece from a whole. 34. become punctured or penetrated. 35. pierce or penetrate. 36. be released or become known; of news. 37. interrupt the flow of current in. 38. undergo breaking. 39. find a flaw in. 40. find the solution or key to. 41. change suddenly from one tone quality or register to another. 42. happen. 43. crack; of the male voice in puberty. 44. fall sharply. 45. diminish or discontinue abruptly. 46. weaken or destroy in spirit or body. 
BREAM: 1. clean (a ship's bottom) with heat. 2. flesh of any of various saltwater fishes of the family Sparidae or the family Bramidae. 
BREAST: 1. meet at breast level. 2. either of two soft fleshy milk-secreting glandular organs on the chest of a woman. 3. meat carved from the breast of a fowl. 4. the part of an animal's body that corresponds to a person's chest. 
BREATH: 1. the process of taking in and expelling air during breathing. 2. the air that is inhaled and exhaled in respiration. 3. a short respite. 4. a slight movement of the air. 
BRECHT: German dramatist and poet who developed a style of epic theater (1898-1956)
BREECH: opening in the rear of the barrel of a gun where bullets can be loaded
BREED: 1. a special variety of domesticated animals within a species. 2. copulate with a female, used especially of horses. 3. cause to procreate (animals). 4. have young (animals) or reproduce (organisms). 
BREEZE: 1. blow gently and lightly. 2. to proceed quickly and easily. 
BREEZY: fresh and animated
BREGMA: the craniometric point at the junction of the sagittal and coronal sutures at the top of the cranium
BREMEN: a city of northwestern Germany linked by the Weser River to the port of Bremerhaven and the North Sea; in the Middle Ages it was a leading member of the Hanseatic League
BREN: a submachine gun operated by gas pressure; used by the British in World War II
BREST: a port city in northwestern France (in Brittany); the chief naval station of France
BRETON: 1. a native or inhabitant of Brittany (especially one who speaks the Breton language). 2. a Celtic language of Brittany. 
BREVE: a diacritical mark (U-shaped) placed over a vowel to indicate a short sound
BREVET: promote somebody by brevet, in the military
BREW: 1. prepare by brewing. 2. sit or let sit in boiling water so as to extract the flavor. 
BREWER: 1. someone who brews beer or ale from malt and hops and water. 2. the owner or manager of a brewery. 
BRIAR: a pipe made from the root (briarroot) of the tree heath
BRIARD: old French breed of large strong usually black dogs having a long tail and long wavy and slightly stiff coat
BRIBE: make illegal payments to in exchange for favors or influence
BRIBER: someone who pays (or otherwise incites) you to commit a wrongful act
BRICK: 1. rectangular block of clay baked by the sun or in a kiln; used as a building or paving material. 2. a good fellow; helpful and trustworthy. 
BRIDAL: 1. of or relating to a wedding. 2. of or pertaining to a bride. 
BRIDE: 1. a woman who has recently been married. 2. a woman participant in her own marriage ceremony. 
BRIDGE: 1. connect or reduce the distance between. 2. make a bridge across. 3. cross over on a bridge. 4. the hard ridge that forms the upper part of the nose. 5. any of various card games based on whist for four players. 6. a wooden support that holds the strings up. 7. a denture anchored to teeth on either side of missing teeth. 8. the link between two lenses; rests on the nose. 9. an upper deck where a ship is steered and the captain stands. 
BRIDLE: 1. anger or take offense. 2. put a bridle on. 3. respond to the reins, as of horses. 
BRIE: soft creamy white cheese; milder than Camembert
BRIEF: 1. of short duration or distance. 2. concise and succinct. 
BRIEFS: short tight-fitting underpants (trade name Jockey shorts)
BRIER: 1. tangled mass of prickly plants. 2. a thorny stem or twig. 
BRIG: 1. two-masted sailing vessel square-rigged on both masts. 2. a penal institution (especially on board a ship). 
BRIGHT: 1. emitting or reflecting light readily or in large amounts. 2. having striking color. 3. characterized by quickness and ease in learning. 4. having lots of light either natural or artificial. 5. made smooth and bright by or as if by rubbing; reflecting a sheen or glow. 6. splendid. 7. clear and sharp and ringing. 8. characterized by happiness or gladness. 9. full or promise. 
BRIGIT: Celtic goddess of fire and fertility and agriculture and household arts and wisdom; later associated with Saint Bridget
BRILL: European food fish
BRIM: 1. be completely full. 2. fill as much as possible. 
BRINE: 1. a strong solution of salt and water used for pickling. 2. soak in brine. 
BRING: 1. take something or somebody with oneself somewhere. 2. cause to come into a particular state or condition. 3. cause to happen or to occur as a consequence. 4. go or come after and bring or take back. 5. bring into a different state. 6. be accompanied by. 7. attract the attention of. 8. induce or persuade. 
BRINK: 1. a region marking a boundary. 2. the edge of a steep place. 
BRYONY: a vine of the genus Bryonia having large leaves and small flowers and yielding acrid juice with emetic and purgative properties
BRISK: 1. become brisk. 2. very active. 
BRIT: 1. the young of a herring or sprat or similar fish. 2. minute crustaceans forming food for right whales. 
BRITON: 1. an inhabitant of southern Britain prior to the Anglo-Saxon invasions. 2. characteristic of or associated with the Britons. 
BRYUM: type genus of the Bryaceae: mosses distinguished by mostly erect and tufted gametophytes and symmetrical short-necked capsules
BRNO: an industrial city in Moravia in Czech Republic to the southeast of Prague
BROACH: bring up a topic for discussion
BROAD: 1. slang term for a woman. 2. not detailed or specific. 3. lacking subtlety; obvious. 4. being at a peak or culminating point. 5. very large in expanse or scope. 6. (of speech) heavily and noticeably regional. 7. showing or characterized by broad-mindedness. 
BROCA: French anthropologist who studied the craniums and brains of different races of people; remembered for his discovery that articulate speech depends on an area of the brain now known as Broca's area (1824-1880)
BROGAN: a thick and heavy shoe
BROIL: 1. cook under a broiler. 2. heat by a natural force. 
BROKE: lacking funds
BROKEN: 1. physically and forcibly separated into pieces or cracked or split. 2. not continuous in space, time, or sequence or varying abruptly. 3. subdued or brought low in condition or status. 4. (especially of promises or contracts) having been violated or disregarded. 5. tamed or trained to obey. 6. topographically very uneven. 7. imperfectly spoken or written. 8. thrown into a state of disarray or confusion. 9. weakened and infirm. 10. destroyed financially. 11. out of working order (`busted' is an informal substitute for `broken'). 12. discontinuous. 13. lacking a part or parts. 
BROKER: act as a broker
BROME: any of various woodland and meadow grasses of the genus Bromus; native to temperate regions
BROMIC: relating to or containing bromine (especially pentavalent bromine)
BROMUS: a genus of grasses of the family Gramineae
BRONCO: an unbroken or imperfectly broken mustang
BRONTE: 1. English novelist; youngest of three Bronte sisters (1820-1849). 2. English novelist; one of three Bronte sisters (1818-1848). 3. English novelist; oldest of three Bronte sisters (1816-1855). 
BRONX: a borough of New York City
BRONZE: 1. of the color of bronze. 2. made from or consisting of bronze. 
BROOCH: fasten with or as if with a brooch
BROOD: 1. think moodily or anxiously about something. 2. hang over, as of something threatening, dark, or menacing. 3. sit on (eggs). 
BROODY: physiologically ready to incubate eggs
BROOK: a natural stream of water smaller than a river (and often a tributary of a river)
BROOKE: English lyric poet (1887-1915)
BROOM: 1. a cleaning implement for sweeping; bundle of straws or twigs attached to a long handle. 2. finish with a broom. 
BROTH: 1. liquid in which meat and vegetables are simmered; used as a basis for e.g. soups or sauces. 2. a thin soup of meat or fish or vegetable stock. 
BROW: the part of the face above the eyes
BROWN: 1. of a color similar to that of wood or earth. 2. (of skin) deeply suntanned. 3. abolitionist who was hanged after leading an unsuccessful raid at Harper's Ferry, Virginia (1800-1859). 
BROWSE: 1. vegetation (such as young shoots, twigs, and leaves) that is suitable for animals to eat. 2. reading superficially or at random. 3. look around casually and randomly, without seeking anything in particular. 4. eat lightly, try different dishes. 
BRUCE: 1. Australian physician and bacteriologist who described the bacterium that causes undulant fever or brucellosis (1855-1931). 2. king of Scotland from 1306 to 1329; defeated the English army under Edward II at Bannockburn and gained recognition of Scottish independence (1274-1329). 
BRUCH: German composer (1838-1920)
BRUGES: a city in northwestern Belgium that is connected by canal to the North Sea; in the 13th century it was a leading member of the Hanseatic League; the old city (known as the City of Bridges) is a popular tourist attraction
BRUIN: a conventional name for a bear used in tales following usage in the old epic `Reynard the Fox'
BRUISE: 1. injure the underlying soft tissue or bone of. 2. break up into small pieces for food preparation. 3. damage (plant tissue) by abrasion or pressure. 
BRULE: a member of a group of Siouan people who constituted a division of the Teton Sioux
BRUMAL: characteristic of or relating to winter
BRUNCH: eat a meal in the late morning
BRUNEI: a sultanate in northwestern Borneo; became independent of Great Britain in 1984
BRUNET: marked by dark or relatively dark pigmentation of hair or skin or eyes
BRUNO: 1. (Roman Catholic Church) a French cleric (born in Germany) who founded the Carthusian order in 1084 (1032-1101). 2. Italian philosopher who used Copernican principles to develop a pantheistic monistic philosophy; condemned for heresy by the Inquisition and burned at the stake (1548-1600). 
BRUNT: main force of a blow etc
BRUSH: 1. rub with a brush, or as if with a brush. 2. touch lightly and briefly. 3. clean with a brush. 4. sweep across or over. 5. remove with or as if with a brush. 6. cover by brushing. 7. the act of brushing your teeth. 8. the act of brushing your hair. 9. contact with something dangerous or undesirable. 
BRUT: (of champagne) extremely dry
BRUTAL: 1. harsh. 2. disagreeably direct and precise. 
BRUTUS: statesman of ancient Rome who (with Cassius) led a conspiracy to assassinate Julius Caesar (85-42 BC)
BUBBLE: 1. form, produce, or emit bubbles. 2. rise in bubbles or as if in bubbles. 3. cause to form bubbles. 
BUBBLY: full of or showing high spirits
BUBER: Israeli religious philosopher (born in Austria); as a Zionist he promoted understanding between Jews and Arabs; his writings affected Christian thinkers as well as Jews (1878-1965)
BUBO: 1. a lymph node that is inflamed and swollen because of plague or gonorrhea or tuberculosis. 2. a genus of Strigidae. 
BUCCAL: 1. of or relating to or toward the cheek. 2. lying within the mouth. 3. oriented toward the inside of the cheek. 
BUCK: 1. United States author whose novels drew on her experiences as a missionary in China (1892-1973). 2. mature male of various mammals (especially deer or antelope). 3. to strive with determination. 4. resist. 5. jump vertically, with legs stiff and back arched. 
BUCKET: 1. put into a bucket. 2. carry in a bucket. 
BUCKLE: 1. fasten with a buckle or buckles. 2. fold or collapse. 
BUD: 1. develop buds. 2. start to grow or develop. 
BUDDHA: 1. founder of Buddhism; worshipped as a god (c 563-483 BC). 2. one who has achieved a state of perfect enlightenment. 
BUDDY: a close friend who accompanies his buddies in their activities
BUDGET: 1. make a budget. 2. a summary of intended expenditures along with proposals for how to meet them. 
BUFF: 1. polish and make shiny. 2. bare skin; naked. 3. an implement consisting of soft material mounted on a block; used for polishing (as in manicuring). 4. of the yellowish-beige color of buff leather. 
BUFFER: 1. add a buffer (a solution). 2. (computer science) a part of RAM used for temporary storage of data that is waiting to be sent to a device; used to compensate for differences in the rate of flow of data between components of a computer system. 3. a power tool used to buff surfaces. 4. a cushion-like device that reduces shock due to an impact. 
BUFFET: 1. strike against forcefully. 2. strike, beat repeatedly. 
BUFO: any toad of the genus Bufo
BUG: 1. general term for any insect or similar creeping or crawling invertebrate. 2. a fault or defect in a computer program, system, or machine. 3. a small hidden microphone; for listening secretly. 
BUGGED: having hidden electronic eavesdropping devices
BUGGY: 1. a small lightweight carriage; drawn by a single horse. 2. infested with bugs. 
BUGLE: 1. play on a bugle. 2. any of various low-growing annual or perennial evergreen herbs native to Eurasia; used for ground cover. 3. a tubular glass or plastic bead sewn onto clothing for decoration. 
BUGLER: someone who plays a bugle
BUY: 1. obtain by purchase; acquire by means of a financial transaction. 2. be worth or be capable of buying. 3. acquire by trade or sacrifice or exchange. 4. accept as true. 
BUYER: a person who buys
BUYING: the act of buying
BUILD: 1. build or establish something abstract. 2. improve the cleansing action of. 3. order, supervise, or finance the construction of. 4. give form to, according to a plan. 5. be engaged in building. 6. found or ground. 7. develop and grow. 
BUILT: (used of soaps or cleaning agents) having a substance (an abrasive or filler) added to increase effectiveness
BUYOUT: acquisition of a company by purchasing a controlling percentage of its stock
BULB: 1. a modified bud consisting of a thickened globular underground stem serving as a reproductive structure. 2. a rounded part of a cylindrical instrument (usually at one end). 3. anything with a round shape resembling a teardrop. 4. a rounded dilation or expansion in a canal or vessel or organ. 
BULBAR: involving the medulla oblongata
BULBED: having a bulb
BULBIL: small bulb or bulb-shaped growth arising from the leaf axil or in the place of flowers
BULBUL: nightingale spoken of in Persian poetry
BULGE: 1. swell or protrude outwards. 2. bulge out; form a bulge outward, or be so full as to appear to bulge. 3. cause to bulge or swell outwards. 
BULGUR: parched crushed wheat
BULK: 1. the property of something that is great in magnitude. 2. the property possessed by a large mass. 3. stick out or up. 
BULKY: of large size for its weight
BULL: 1. push or force. 2. try to raise the price of stocks through speculative buying. 3. advance in price. 4. uncomplimentary terms for a policeman. 5. an investor with an optimistic market outlook; an investor who expects prices to rise and so buys now for resale later. 6. a formal proclamation issued by the pope (usually written in antiquated characters and sealed with a leaden bulla). 7. mature male of various mammals of which the female is called `cow'; e.g. whales or elephants or especially cattle. 
BULLA: the round leaden seal affixed to a papal bull
BULLET: a projectile that is fired from a gun
BULLY: 1. a cruel and brutal fellow. 2. a hired thug. 
BUM: 1. be lazy or idle. 2. of very poor quality; flimsy. 
BUMBLE: speak haltingly
BUMF: reading materials (documents, written information) that you must read and deal with but that you think are extremely boring
BUMMER: 1. an experience that is irritating or frustrating or disappointing. 2. a bad reaction to a hallucinogenic drug. 
BUMP: 1. knock against with force or violence. 2. dance erotically or dance with the pelvis thrust forward. 
BUMPER: 1. a glass filled to the brim (especially as a toast). 2. a mechanical device consisting of bars at either end of a vehicle to absorb shock and prevent serious damage. 
BUMPY: covered with or full of bumps
BUN: small rounded bread either plain or sweet
BUNA: made by polymerizing butadiene
BUNCH: 1. a grouping of a number of similar things. 2. any collection in its entirety. 3. gather or cause to gather into a cluster. 
BUNCHY: occurring close together in bunches or clusters
BUNCO: a swindle in which you cheat at gambling or persuade a person to buy worthless property
BUNDLE: 1. a package of several things tied together for carrying or storing. 2. make into a bundle. 3. sleep fully clothed in the same bed with one's betrothed. 
BUNG: 1. a plug used to close a hole in a barrel or flask. 2. close with a cork or stopper. 
BUNGEE: an elasticized rope
BUNGLE: spoil by behaving clumsily or foolishly
BUNION: a painful swelling of the bursa of the first joint of the big toe
BUNK: 1. a long trough for feeding cattle. 2. a rough bed (as at a campsite). 3. unacceptable behavior (especially ludicrously false statements). 4. provide with a bunk. 
BUNKER: 1. hit a golf ball into a bunker. 2. fill (a ship's bunker) with coal or oil. 3. transfer cargo from a ship to a warehouse. 
BUNNY: 1. a young waitress in a nightclub whose costume includes the tail and ears of a rabbit. 2. (usually informal) especially a young rabbit. 
BUNSEN: German chemist who with Kirchhoff pioneered spectrum analysis but is remembered mainly for his invention of the Bunsen burner (1811-1899)
BUNT: 1. hit a ball in such a way so as to make it go a short distance. 2. disease of wheat characterized by replacement of the grains with greasy masses of smelly smut spores. 3. similar to Tilletia caries. 4. fungus that destroys kernels of wheat by replacing them with greasy masses of smelly spores. 
BUNTAL: fine white Philippine fiber from stalks of unopened leaves of talipot palms; used in making hats
BUNTER: a batter who bunts
BUNUEL: Spanish film director (1900-1983)
BUOY: 1. float on the surface of water. 2. keep afloat. 3. mark with a buoy. 
BUR: 1. remove the burrs from. 2. small bit used in dentistry or surgery. 
BURA: a Chadic language spoken south of Lake Chad
BURBOT: elongate freshwater cod of northern Europe and Asia and North America having barbels around its mouth
BURDEN: 1. weight down with a load. 2. the central idea that is expanded in a document or discourse. 
BURG: colloquial American term for a town
BURGH: a borough in Scotland
BURGOO: 1. a gathering at which burgoo stew is served. 2. thick spicy stew of whatever meat and whatever vegetables are available; southern United States. 
BURY: 1. cover from sight. 2. place in a grave or tomb. 3. place in the earth and cover with soil. 4. embed deeply. 
BURIAL: the ritual placing of a corpse in a grave
BURIED: placed in a grave
BURIN: a chisel of tempered steel with a sharp point; used for engraving
BURKE: 1. murder without leaving a trace on the body. 2. get rid of, silence, or suppress. 
BURKED: suppressed quietly or indirectly
BURL: 1. remove the burls from cloth. 2. a large rounded outgrowth on the trunk or branch of a tree. 
BURLAP: coarse jute fabric
BURLED: (of wood) have a pattern from the grain of a tree burl
BURN: 1. destroy by fire. 2. undergo combustion. 3. a place or area that has been burned (especially on a person's body). 4. cause to burn or combust. 5. shine intensely, as if with heat. 6. feel strong emotion, especially anger or passion. 7. cause to undergo combustion. 8. burn at the stake. 9. spend (significant amounts of money). 10. feel hot or painful. 11. burn with heat, fire, or radiation. 
BURNED: 1. treated by heating to a high temperature but below the melting or fusing point. 2. destroyed or badly damaged by fire. 3. ruined by overcooking. 
BURNER: 1. an apparatus for burning fuel (or refuse). 2. the heating elements of a stove or range on which pots and pans are placed for cooking. 
BURNUP: 1. a high-speed motorcycle race on a public road. 2. the amount of fuel used up (as in a nuclear reactor). 
BURP: expel gas from the stomach
BURR: 1. rough projection left on a workpiece after drilling or cutting. 2. United States politician who served as vice president under Jefferson; he mortally wounded his political rival Alexander Hamilton in a duel and fled south (1756-1836). 3. rotary file for smoothing rough edges left on a workpiece. 
BURRO: small donkey used as a pack animal
BURROW: move through by or as by digging
BURSA: 1. a city in northwestern Turkey. 2. a small fluid-filled sac located between movable parts of the body especially at joints. 
BURSAL: relating to or affecting a bursa
BURSAR: the treasurer at a college or university
BURST: 1. a sudden flurry of activity (often for no obvious reason). 2. come open suddenly and violently, as if from internal pressure. 3. move suddenly, energetically, or violently. 4. emerge suddenly. 5. break open or apart suddenly and forcefully. 
BURT: English psychologist whose studies of twins were later said to have used fabricated data (1883-1971)
BURTON: 1. English explorer who with John Speke was the first European to explore Lake Tanganyika (1821-1890). 2. Welsh film actor who often co-starred with Elizabeth Taylor (1925-1984). 3. a strong dark English ale. 
BUS: 1. send or move around by bus. 2. a car that is old and unreliable. 3. ride in a bus. 4. remove used dishes from the table in restaurants. 
BUSBAR: an electrical conductor that makes a common connection between several circuits
BUSBOY: a restaurant attendant who sets tables and assists waiters and clears away dirty dishes
BUSH: 1. a large wilderness area. 2. 43rd President of the United States; son of George Herbert Walker Bush (born in 1946). 3. United States electrical engineer who designed an early analogue computer and who led the scientific program of the United States during World War II (1890-1974). 4. vice president under Reagan and 41st President of the United States (born in 1924). 5. provide with a bushing. 
BUSHEL: 1. a United States dry measure equal to 4 pecks or 2152.42 cubic inches. 2. a British imperial capacity measure (liquid or dry) equal to 4 pecks. 
BUSHY: 1. used of hair; thick and poorly groomed. 2. resembling a bush in being thickly branched and spreading. 
BUSY: 1. actively or fully engaged or occupied. 2. overcrowded or cluttered with detail. 3. crowded with or characterized by much activity. 4. (of facilities such as telephones or lavatories) unavailable for use by anyone else or indicating unavailability; (`engaged' is a British term for a busy telephone line). 
BUSILY: in a busy manner
BUSK: play music in a public place and solicit money for it
BUSKER: a person who entertains people for money in public places (as by singing or dancing), usually while asking for money
BUSKIN: a boot reaching halfway up to the knee
BUSMAN: someone who drives a bus
BUST: 1. a sculpture of the head and shoulders of a person. 2. an occasion for excessive eating or drinking. 
BUSTER: 1. a robust child. 2. a person who breaks horses. 3. a person (or thing) that breaks up or overpowers something. 
BUSTLE: 1. move or cause to move energetically or busily. 2. a framework worn at the back below the waist for giving fullness to a woman's skirt. 
BUTANE: occurs in natural gas; used in the manufacture of rubber and fuels
BUTCH: 1. used of men; markedly masculine in appearance or manner. 2. (of male or female homosexuals) characterized by stereotypically male traits or appearance. 
BUTEA: genus of East Indian trees or shrubs: dhak
BUTEO: broad-winged soaring hawks
BUTYL: a hydrocarbon radical (C4H9)
BUTLER: 1. a manservant (usually the head servant of a household) who has charge of wines and the table. 2. English novelist who described a fictitious land he called Erewhon (1835-1902). 3. English poet (1612-1680). 
BUTT: 1. thick end of the handle. 2. to strike, thrust or shove against. 3. place end to end without overlapping. 4. a large cask (especially one holding a volume equivalent to 2 hogsheads or 126 gallons). 5. the small unused part of something (especially the end of a cigarette that is left after smoking). 
BUTTE: 1. a hill that rises abruptly from the surrounding region; has a flat top and sloping sides. 2. a town in southwestern Montana; center for mining copper. 
BUTTER: 1. spread butter on. 2. a fighter who strikes the opponent with his head. 
BUTTY: a sandwich
BUTTON: 1. provide with buttons. 2. any of various plant parts that resemble buttons. 3. a round flat badge displaying information and suitable for pinning onto a garment. 4. any artifact that resembles a button. 5. fasten with buttons. 
BUTUT: 100 bututs equal 1 dalasi in Gambia
BUXOM: (of a female body) healthily plump and vigorous; 
BUXUS: type genus of the Buxaceae
BUZZ: 1. make a buzzing sound. 2. fly low. 3. call with a buzzer. 
BUZZER: a signaling device that makes a buzzing sound
BVD: trademark for men's underwear
CAB: 1. a compartment at the front of a motor vehicle or locomotive where driver sits. 2. small two-wheeled horse-drawn carriage; with two seats and a folding hood. 3. a car driven by a person whose job is to take passengers where they want to go in exchange for money. 
CABAL: a clique (often secret) that seeks power usually through intrigue
CABALA: an esoteric or occult matter resembling the Kabbalah that is traditionally secret
CABANA: a small tent used as a dressing room beside the sea or a swimming pool
CABER: a heavy wooden pole (such as the trunk of a young fir) that is tossed as a test of strength (in the Highlands of northern Scotland)
CABIN: 1. confine to a small space, such as a cabin. 2. a small house built of wood; usually in a wooded area. 3. the enclosed compartment of an aircraft or spacecraft where passengers are carried. 
CABLE: 1. send cables, wires, or telegrams. 2. fasten with a cable. 3. a very strong thick rope made of twisted hemp or steel wire. 4. a nautical unit of depth. 5. a television system that transmits over cables. 
CABOT: 1. son of John Cabot who was born in Italy and who led an English expedition in search of the Northwest Passage and a Spanish expedition that explored the La Plata region of Brazil; in 1544 he published a map of the world (1476-1557). 2. Italian explorer who led the English expedition in 1497 that discovered the mainland of North America and explored the coast from Nova Scotia to Newfoundland (ca. 1450-1498). 
CACAO: tropical American tree producing cacao beans
CACHE: 1. a hidden storage space (for money or provisions or weapons). 2. (computer science) RAM memory that is set aside as a specialized buffer storage that is continually updated; used to optimize data transfers between system elements with different characteristics. 
CACHET: 1. an indication of approved or superior status. 2. a warrant formerly issued by a French king who could warrant imprisonment or death in a signed letter under his seal. 3. a seal on a letter. 
CACHOU: a scented lozenge used to sweeten the breath (e.g. to conceal the odor of tobacco)
CACKLE: 1. talk or utter in a cackling manner. 2. emit a loud, unpleasant kind of laughing. 3. squawk shrilly and loudly, characteristic of hens. 
CACTUS: any succulent plant of the family Cactaceae native chiefly to arid regions of the New World and usually having spines
CAD: someone who is morally reprehensible
CADDY: a can for storing tea
CADDIE: act as a caddie and carry clubs for a player
CADDO: 1. a group of Plains Indians formerly living in what is now North and South Dakota and Nebraska and Kansas and Arkansas and Louisiana and Oklahoma and Texas. 2. a family of North American Indian languages spoken widely in the Midwest by the Caddo. 
CADET: a military trainee (as at a military academy)
CADIZ: an ancient port city in southwestern Spain
CADMUS: (Greek mythology) the brother of Europa and traditional founder of Thebes in Boeotia
CADRE: a nucleus of military personnel capable of expansion
CAELUM: a constellation in the southern hemisphere near Columba and Eridanus
CAESAR: 1. conqueror of Gaul and master of Italy (100-44 BC). 2. United States comedian who pioneered comedy television shows (born 1922). 
CAFE: a small restaurant where drinks and snacks are sold
CAFF: informal British term for a cafe
CAFTAN: 1. a woman's dress style that imitates the caftan cloaks worn by men in the Near East. 2. a (cotton or silk) cloak with full sleeves and sash reaching down to the ankles; worn by men in the Levant. 
CAGE: 1. confine in a cage. 2. something that restricts freedom as a cage restricts movement. 3. United States composer of avant-garde music (1912-1992). 4. the net that is the goal in ice hockey. 
CAGEY: 1. showing self-interest and shrewdness in dealing with others. 2. characterized by great caution and wariness. 
CAGILY: in a cagey manner
CAHITA: 1. a member of the Taracahitian people of central Mexico. 2. the Uto-Aztecan language of the Cahita. 
CAHOOT: collusion
CAIMAN: a semiaquatic reptile of Central and South America that resembles an alligator but has a more heavily armored belly
CAIN: (Old Testament) Cain and Abel were the first children of Adam and Eve born after the Fall of Man; Cain killed Abel out of jealousy and was exiled by God
CAIRN: 1. a mound of stones piled up as a memorial or to mark a boundary or path. 2. small rough-haired breed of terrier from Scotland. 
CAIRO: 1. a town at the southern tip of Illinois at the confluence of the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers. 2. the capital of Egypt and the largest city in Africa; a major port just to the south of the Nile delta; formerly the home of the Pharaohs. 
CAYUGA: 1. a member of an Iroquoian people formerly living around Cayuga Lake in New York State. 2. the Iroquoian language spoken by the Cayuga. 
CAYUSE: a small native range horse
CAJUN: a Louisianian descended from Acadian immigrants from Nova Scotia (`Cajun' comes from `Acadian')
CAKE: 1. a block of solid substance (such as soap or wax). 2. baked goods made from or based on a mixture of flour, sugar, eggs, and fat. 
CAKILE: small genus of succulent annual herbs found on sandy shores of North America and Europe
CALABA: West Indian tree having racemes of fragrant white flowers and yielding a durable timber and resinous juice
CALAIS: a town in northern France on the Strait of Dover that serves as a ferry port to England; in 1347 it was captured by the English king Edward III after a long siege and remained in English hands until it was recaptured by the French king Henry II in 1558
CALASH: 1. a woman's large folded hooped hood; worn in the 18th century. 2. the folding hood of a horse-drawn carriage. 
CALCED: used of certain religious orders who wear shoes
CALCIC: derived from or containing calcium or lime
CALF: 1. young of domestic cattle. 2. the muscular back part of the shank. 3. fine leather from the skin of a calf. 4. young of various large placental mammals e.g. whale or giraffe or elephant or buffalo. 
CALI: city in southwestern Colombia in a rich agricultural area
CALICO: made of calico or resembling calico in being patterned
CALIPH: the civil and religious leader of a Muslim state considered to be a representative of Allah on earth
CALYX: (botany) the whorl of sepals of a flower collectively forming the outer floral envelope or layer of the perianth enclosing and supporting the developing bud; usually green
CALK: 1. provide with calks. 2. injure with a calk. 
CALL: 1. a telephone connection. 2. ascribe a quality to or give a name of a common noun that reflects a quality. 3. a demand especially in the phrase "the call of duty". 4. a brief social visit. 5. read aloud to check for omissions or absentees. 6. send a message or attempt to reach someone by radio, phone, etc.; make a signal to in order to transmit a message. 7. utter a characteristic note or cry. 8. stop or postpone because of adverse conditions, such as bad weather. 9. (sports) the decision made by an umpire or referee. 10. get or try to get into communication (with someone) by telephone. 11. order, request, or command to come. 12. call a meeting; invite or command to meet. 13. make a stop in a harbour. 14. demand payment of (a loan). 15. give the calls (to the dancers) for a square dance. 16. indicate a decision in regard to. 17. require the presentation of for redemption before maturation. 18. challenge (somebody) to make good on a statement; charge with or censure for an offense. 19. declare in the capacity of an umpire or referee. 20. lure by imitating the characteristic call of an animal. 21. order or request or give a command for. 22. order, summon, or request for a specific duty or activity, work, role. 23. utter in a loud voice or announce. 24. challenge the sincerity or truthfulness of. 25. consider or regard as being. 26. rouse somebody from sleep with a call. 
CALLA: water arum
CALLER: 1. providing coolness. 2. fresh. 3. the bettor in a card game who matches the bet and calls for a show of hands. 4. a person who announces the changes of steps during a dance. 5. someone who proclaims or summons in a loud voice. 6. the person who convenes a meeting. 7. the person initiating a telephone call. 
CALLUS: 1. form a callus or calluses. 2. (botany) an isolated thickening of tissue, especially a stiff protuberance on the lip of an orchid. 3. cause a callus to form on. 
CALM: 1. not agitated; without losing self-possession. 2. become quiet or calm, especially after a state of agitation. 3. (of weather) free from storm or wind. 
CALMLY: with self-possession (especially in times of stress)
CALPAC: a high-crowned black cap (usually made of felt or sheepskin) worn by men in Turkey and Iran and the Caucasus
CALQUE: an expression introduced into one language by translating it from another language
CALTHA: a genus of Caltha
CALVE: 1. release ice. 2. birth. 
CALVIN: 1. United States chemist noted for discovering the series of chemical reactions in photosynthesis (1911-). 2. Swiss theologian (born in France) whose tenets (predestination and the irresistibility of grace and justification by faith) defined Presbyterianism (1509-1564). 
CAM: 1. a river in east central England that flows past Cambridge to join the Ouse River. 2. a rotating disk shaped to convert circular into linear motion. 
CAMAIL: a medieval hood of mail suspended from a basinet to protect the head and neck
CAMAS: any of several plants of the genus Camassia; North and South America
CAMBER: 1. curve upward in the middle. 2. the alignment of the wheels of a motor vehicle closer together at the bottom than at the top. 
CAMDEN: a city in southwestern New Jersey on the Delaware River near Philadelphia
CAMEL: cud-chewing mammal used as a draft or saddle animal in desert regions
CAMEO: engraving or carving in low relief on a stone (as in a brooch or ring)
CAMERA: equipment for taking photographs (usually consisting of a lightproof box with a lens at one end and light-sensitive film at the other)
CAMISE: a loose shirt or tunic; originally worn in the Middle Ages
CAMLET: 1. a garment made of camlet fabric. 2. a fabric of Asian origin; originally made of silk and camel's hair. 
CAMP: 1. providing sophisticated amusement by virtue of having artificially (and vulgarly) mannered or banal or sentimental qualities. 2. establish or set up a camp. 3. give an artificially banal or sexual quality to. 4. a penal institution (often for forced labor). 5. something that is considered amusing not because of its originality but because of its unoriginality. 6. shelter for persons displaced by war or political oppression or for religious beliefs. 7. a site where care and activities are provided for children during the summer months. 
CAMPER: 1. someone living temporarily in a tent or lodge for recreation. 2. a recreational vehicle equipped for camping out while traveling. 
CAMPUS: a field on which the buildings of a university are situated
CAN: 1. preserve in a can or tin. 2. the quantity contained in a can. 3. a buoy with a round bottom and conical top. 
CANADA: a nation in northern North America; the French were the first Europeans to settle in mainland Canada
CANAL: 1. provide (a city) with a canal. 2. long and narrow strip of water made for boats or for irrigation. 
CANAPE: an appetizer consisting usually of a thin slice of bread or toast spread with caviar or cheese or other savory food
CANARD: a deliberately misleading fabrication
CANARY: 1. a female singer. 2. any of several small Old World finches. 3. having the color of a canary; of a light to moderate yellow. 
CANCAN: a high-kicking dance of French origin performed by a female chorus line
CANCEL: 1. postpone indefinitely or annul something that was scheduled. 2. make up for. 3. declare null and void; make ineffective. 4. make invalid for use. 
CANCER: 1. any malignant growth or tumor caused by abnormal and uncontrolled cell division; it may spread to other parts of the body through the lymphatic system or the blood stream. 2. (astrology) a person who is born while the sun is in Cancer. 3. a small zodiacal constellation in the northern hemisphere; between Leo and Gemini. 4. the fourth sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about June 21 to July 22. 5. type genus of the family Cancridae. 
CANCUN: a popular island resort off the northeastern tip of the Yucatan peninsula
CANDY: a rich sweet made of flavored sugar and often combined with fruit or nuts
CANDID: 1. informal or natural; especially caught off guard or unprepared. 2. openly straightforward and direct without reserve or secretiveness. 
CANDLE: 1. examine eggs for freshness by holding them against a light. 2. the basic unit of luminous intensity adopted under the Systeme International d'Unites; equal to 1/60 of the luminous intensity per square centimeter of a black body radiating at the temperature of 2,046 degrees Kelvin. 
CANDOR: the quality of being honest and straightforward in attitude and speech
CANE: 1. beat with a cane. 2. a strong slender often flexible stem as of bamboos, reeds, rattans, or sugar cane. 3. a stiff switch used to hit students as punishment. 
CANGUE: an instrument of punishment formerly used in China for petty criminals; consists of a heavy wooden collar enclosing the neck and arms
CANINE: 1. of or relating to a pointed conical tooth. 2. of or relating to or characteristic of members of the family Canidae. 
CANYON: a ravine formed by a river in an area with little rainfall
CANIS: type genus of the Canidae: domestic and wild dogs; wolves; jackals
CANKER: 1. become infected with a canker. 2. infect with a canker. 
CANNA: any plant of the genus Canna having large sheathing leaves and clusters of large showy flowers
CANNAE: ancient city is southeastern Italy where Hannibal defeated the Romans in 216 BC
CANNED: 1. recorded for broadcast. 2. sealed in a can or jar. 
CANNES: a port and resort city on the French Riviera; site of an annual film festival
CANNON: 1. make a cannon. 2. fire a cannon. 3. (Middle Ages) a cylindrical piece of armor plate to protect the arm. 4. heavy automatic gun fired from an airplane. 5. lower part of the leg extending from the hock to the fetlock in hoofed mammals. 
CANOE: travel by canoe
CANON: 1. a rule or especially body of rules or principles generally established as valid and fundamental in a field or art or philosophy. 2. a priest who is a member of a cathedral chapter. 3. a contrapuntal piece of music in which a melody in one part is imitated exactly in other parts. 4. a complete list of saints that have been recognized by the Roman Catholic Church. 5. a collection of books accepted as holy scripture especially the books of the Bible recognized by any Christian church as genuine and inspired. 
CANOPY: 1. cover with a canopy. 2. the umbrellalike part of a parachute that fills with air. 3. a covering (usually of cloth) that serves as a roof to shelter an area from the weather. 
CANT: 1. insincere talk about religion or morals. 2. heel over. 
CANTER: 1. ride at a canter. 2. go at a canter, of horses. 3. ride at a cantering pace. 
CANTY: lively and brisk
CANTLE: the back of a saddle seat
CANTO: 1. the highest part (usually the melody) in a piece of choral music. 2. a major division of a long poem. 
CANTON: divide into cantons, of a country
CANTOR: the official of a synagogue who conducts the liturgical part of the service and sings or chants the prayers intended to be performed as solos
CANUCK: informal term for Canadians in general and French Canadians in particular
CANUTE: king of Denmark and Norway who forced Edmund II to divide England with him; on the death of Edmund II, Canute became king of all England (994-1035)
CANVAS: 1. a heavy, closely woven fabric (used for clothing or chairs or sails or tents). 2. an oil painting on canvas fabric. 3. cover with canvas. 4. the mat that forms the floor of the ring in which boxers or professional wrestlers compete. 
CAP: 1. lie at the top of. 2. restrict the number or amount of. 3. something serving as a cover or protection. 4. a fruiting structure resembling an umbrella or a cone that forms the top of a stalked fleshy fungus such as a mushroom. 
CAPE: 1. a strip of land projecting into a body of water. 2. a sleeveless garment like a cloak but shorter. 
CAPER: 1. jump about playfully. 2. pickled flower buds used as a pungent relish in various dishes and sauces. 3. a crime (especially a robbery). 4. a playful leap or hop. 
CAPET: King of France elected in 987 and founding the Capetian dynasty (940-996)
CAPFUL: the quantity that a cap will hold
CAPO: the head of a branch of an organized crime syndicate
CAPON: 1. flesh of a castrated male chicken. 2. castrated male chicken. 
CAPOTE: 1. a long overcoat with a hood that can be pulled over the head. 2. a long cloak with a hood that can be pulled over the head. 
CAPPED: 1. used especially of front teeth having (artificial) crowns. 2. covered as if with a cap or crown especially of a specified kind. 
CAPRI: an island (part of Campania) in the Bay of Naples in southern Italy; a tourist attraction noted for beautiful scenery
CAPSID: the outer covering of protein surrounding the nucleic acid of a virus
CAPTOR: a person who captures and holds people or animals
CAPUT: a headlike protuberance on an organ or structure
CAR: 1. a motor vehicle with four wheels; usually propelled by an internal combustion engine. 2. a wheeled vehicle adapted to the rails of railroad. 3. the compartment that is suspended from an airship and that carries personnel and the cargo and the power plant. 4. where passengers ride up and down. 
CARAFE: a bottle with a stopper; for serving wine or water
CARANX: type genus of the Carangidae
CARAT: a unit of weight for precious stones = 200 mg
CARBOY: a large bottle for holding corrosive liquids; usually cushioned in a special container
CARBON: 1. an abundant nonmetallic tetravalent element occurring in three allotropic forms: amorphous carbon and graphite and diamond; occurs in all organic compounds. 2. a copy made with carbon paper. 
CARD: 1. one of a set of small pieces of stiff paper marked in various ways and used for playing games or for telling fortunes. 2. ask someone for identification to determine whether he or she is old enough to consume liquor. 3. a rectangular piece of stiff paper used to send messages (may have printed greetings or pictures). 4. thin cardboard, usually rectangular. 5. (golf) a record of scores (as in golf). 
CARDIA: the opening into the stomach and that part of the stomach connected to the esophagus
CARE: 1. feel concern or interest. 2. a cause for feeling concern. 3. attention and management implying responsibility for safety. 4. activity involved in maintaining something in good working order. 5. provide care for. 
CAREEN: move sideways or in an unsteady way
CAREER: 1. move headlong at high speed. 2. the general progression of your working or professional life. 
CARESS: touch or stroke lightly in a loving or endearing manner
CARET: a mark used by an author or editor to indicate where something is to be inserted into a text
CAREX: large genus of plants found in damp woodlands and bogs and ditches or at water margins: sedges
CARFUL: the quantity that a car will hold
CARGO: goods carried by a large vehicle
CARHOP: a waiter at a drive-in restaurant
CARYA: genus of large deciduous nut-bearing trees; United States and China
CARIB: 1. a member of an American Indian peoples of northeastern South America and the Lesser Antilles. 2. the family of languages spoken by the Carib. 
CARICA: type genus of the Caricaceae; tropical American trees: papayas
CARINA: 1. a keel-shaped constellation in the southern hemisphere; contains the start Canopus. 2. any of various keel-shaped structures or ridges such as that on the breastbone of a bird or that formed by the fused petals of a pea blossom. 
CARING: feeling and exhibiting concern and empathy for others
CARNAL: of or relating to the body or flesh
CAROB: 1. long pod containing small beans and sweetish edible pulp; used as animal feed and source of a chocolate substitute. 2. evergreen Mediterranean tree with edible pods; the biblical carob. 3. powder from the ground seeds and pods of the carob tree; used as a chocolate substitute. 
CAROL: 1. sing carols. 2. a joyful song (usually celebrating the birth of Christ). 
CAROM: 1. make a carom. 2. rebound after hitting. 
CARP: 1. the lean flesh of a fish that is often farmed; can be baked or braised. 2. any of various freshwater fish of the family Cyprinidae. 
CARPAL: of or relating to the wrist
CARPEL: a simple pistil or one element of a compound pistil
CARPER: someone who constantly criticizes in a petty way
CARPET: 1. cover completely, as if with a carpet. 2. form a carpet-like cover (over). 3. cover with a carpet. 
CARREL: 1. French surgeon and biologist who developed a way to suture and graft blood vessels (1873-1944). 2. small individual study area in a library. 
CARRY: 1. the act of carrying something. 2. have with oneself; have on one's person. 3. serve as a means for expressing something. 4. bear or be able to bear the weight, pressure,or responsibility of. 5. extend to a certain degree. 6. continue or extend. 7. be necessarily associated with or result in or involve. 8. win in an election. 9. include, as on a list. 10. include as the content; broadcast or publicize. 11. pass on a communication. 12. have as an inherent or characteristic feature or have as a consequence. 13. be conveyed over a certain distance. 14. keep up with financial support. 15. have or possess something abstract. 16. be equipped with (a mast or sail). 17. win approval or support for. 18. compensate for a weaker partner or member by one's own performance. 19. take further or advance. 20. have on the surface or on the skin. 21. capture after a fight. 22. transfer (a number, cipher, or remainder) to the next column or unit's place before or after, in addition or multiplication. 23. pursue a line of scent or be a bearer. 24. bear (a crop). 25. propel or give impetus to. 26. drink alcohol without showing ill effects. 27. be able to feed. 28. have a certain range. 29. cover a certain distance or advance beyond. 30. secure the passage or adoption (of bills and motions). 31. be successful in. 32. sing or play against other voices or parts. 
CARROT: 1. deep orange edible root of the cultivated carrot plant. 2. perennial plant widely cultivated as an annual in many varieties for its long conical orange edible roots; temperate and tropical regions. 3. orange root; important source of carotene. 4. promise of reward as in "carrot and stick"; . 
CART: 1. a heavy open wagon usually having two wheels and drawn by an animal. 2. transport something in a cart. 
CARTER: 1. Englishman and Egyptologist who in 1922 discovered and excavated the tomb of Tutankhamen (1873-1939). 2. 39th President of the United States (1924-). 3. someone whose work is driving carts. 
CARTON: 1. the quantity contained in a carton. 2. a box made of cardboard; opens by flaps on top. 
CARUM: caraway
CARVE: 1. form by carving. 2. engrave or cut by chipping away at a surface. 3. cut to pieces. 
CARVED: made for or formed by carving (`carven' is archaic or literary)
CASABA: melon having yellowish rind and whitish flesh
CASE: 1. look over, usually with the intention to rob. 2. the actual state of things. 3. a portable container for carrying several objects. 4. a person requiring professional services. 5. a problem requiring investigation. 6. a statement of facts and reasons used to support an argument. 7. the quantity contained in a case. 8. nouns or pronouns or adjectives (often marked by inflection) related in some way to other words in a sentence. 9. a specific state of mind that is temporary. 10. (printing) the receptacle in which a compositor has his type, which is divided into compartments for the different letters, spaces, or numbers. 11. bed linen consisting of a cover for a pillow. 12. a glass container used to store and display items in a shop or museum or home. 
CASED: 1. covered or protected with or as if with a case. 2. enclosed in a case. 
CASEIN: a milk protein used in making e.g. plastics and adhesives
CASERN: military barracks in a garrison town
CASH: 1. exchange for cash. 2. prompt payment for goods or services in currency or by check. 3. United States country music singer and songwriter (1932-2003). 
CASHED: for which money has been paid
CASHEW: 1. tropical American evergreen tree bearing kidney-shaped nuts that are edible only when roasted. 2. kidney-shaped nut edible only when roasted. 
CASING: 1. the outermost covering of a pneumatic tire. 2. the enclosing frame around a door or window opening. 
CASINO: 1. a public building for gambling and entertainment. 2. a card game in which cards face up on the table are taken with eligible cards in the hand. 
CASK: the quantity a cask will hold
CASKET: 1. small and often ornate box for holding jewels or other valuables. 2. enclose in a casket. 
CASPAR: (New Testament) one of the three sages from the east who came bearing gifts for the infant Jesus
CASPER: a city of east central Wyoming on the North Platte river
CASQUE: (15-16th century) any armor for the head; usually ornate without a visor
CASSIA: 1. any of various trees or shrubs of the genus Cassia having pinnately compound leaves and usually yellow flowers followed by long seedpods. 2. Chinese tree with aromatic bark; yields a less desirable cinnamon than Ceylon cinnamon. 
CAST: 1. the actors in a play. 2. select to play,sing, or dance a part in a play, movie, musical, opera, or ballet. 3. assign the roles of (a movie or a play) to actors. 4. object formed by a mold. 5. form by pouring (e.g., wax or hot metal) into a cast or mold. 6. deposit. 
CASTE: 1. social status or position conferred by a system based on class. 2. (Hinduism) a hereditary social class among Hindus; stratified according to ritual purity. 3. a social class separated from others by distinctions of hereditary rank or profession or wealth. 4. in some social insects (such as ants) a physically distinct individual or group of individuals specialized to perform certain functions in the colony. 
CASTER: 1. a worker who casts molten metal into finished products. 2. a shaker with a perforated top for sprinkling powdered sugar. 3. a pivoting roller attached to the bottom of furniture or trucks or portable machines to make them movable. 
CASTLE: 1. a large building formerly occupied by a ruler and fortified against attack. 2. (chess) the piece that can move any number of unoccupied squares in a direction parallel to the sides of the chessboard. 3. interchanging the positions of the king and a rook. 4. move the king two squares toward a rook and in the same move the rook to the square next past the king. 
CASTOR: 1. a multiple star with 6 components; second brightest in Gemini; close to Pollux. 2. type genus of the Castoridae: beavers. 
CASUAL: 1. marked by blithe unconcern. 2. without or seeming to be without plan or method; offhand. 3. appropriate for ordinary or routine occasions. 4. occurring or appearing or singled out by chance. 5. hasty and without attention to detail; not thorough. 6. occurring from time to time. 7. not showing effort or strain. 
CAT: 1. beat with a cat-o'-nine-tails. 2. a spiteful woman gossip. 
CATCH: 1. discover or come upon accidentally, suddenly, or unexpectedly; catch somebody doing something or in a certain state. 2. perceive with the senses quickly, suddenly, or momentarily. 3. a person regarded as a good matrimonial prospect. 4. take hold of so as to seize or restrain or stop the motion of. 5. a break or check in the voice (usually a sign of strong emotion). 6. a restraint that checks the motion of something. 7. attract and fix. 8. a cooperative game in which a ball is passed back and forth. 9. reach in time. 10. get or regain something necessary, usually quickly or briefly. 11. be struck or affected by. 12. check oneself during an action. 13. hear, usually without the knowledge of the speakers. 14. cause to become accidentally or suddenly caught, ensnared, or entangled. 15. grasp with the mind or develop an understanding of. 16. contract. 17. start burning. 18. perceive by hearing. 19. suffer from the receipt of. 20. apprehend and reproduce accurately. 21. take in and retain. 22. spread or be communicated. 23. be the catcher. 24. become aware of. 25. delay or hold up; prevent from proceeding on schedule or as planned. 
CATCHY: having concealed difficulty
CATENA: a chain of connected ideas or passages or objects so arranged that each member is closely related to the preceding and following members (especially a series of patristic comments elucidating Christian dogma)
CATER: supply food ready to eat; for parties and banquets
CATGUT: 1. perennial subshrub of eastern North America having downy leaves yellowish and rose flowers and; source of rotenone. 2. a strong cord made from the intestines of sheep and used in surgery. 
CATHA: a genus of African evergreen shrubs characterized by thick leaves and white flowers
CATION: a positively charged ion
CATKIN: a cylindrical spikelike inflorescence
CATSUP: thick spicy sauce made from tomatoes
CATTY: any of various units of weight used in southeastern Asia (especially a Chinese measure equal to 500 grams)
CATTLE: domesticated bovine animals as a group regardless of sex or age
CAUCUS: meet to select a candidate or promote a policy
CAUDA: any taillike structure
CAUDAL: 1. constituting or relating to a tail. 2. resembling a tail. 3. situated in or directed toward the part of the body from which the tail arises. 
CAUDEX: woody stem of palms and tree ferns
CAUL: the inner membrane of embryos in higher vertebrates (especially when covering the head at birth)
CAULK: seal with caulking
CAUSAL: involving or constituting a cause; causing
CAUSE: 1. give rise to; cause to happen or occur, not always intentionally. 2. a justification for something existing or happening. 
CAVE: 1. hollow out as if making a cave or opening. 2. explore natural caves. 
CAVEAT: (law) a formal notice filed with a court or officer to suspend a proceeding until filer is given a hearing
CAVERN: 1. hollow out as if making a cavern. 2. a large cave or a large chamber in a cave. 
CAVY: short-tailed rough-haired South American rodent
CAVIA: type genus of the Caviidae: guinea pigs
CAVIAR: salted roe of sturgeon or other large fish; usually served as an hors d'oeuvre
CAVIL: raise trivial objections
CAVITY: 1. space that is surrounded by something. 2. soft decayed area in a tooth; progressive decay can lead to the death of a tooth. 3. (anatomy) a natural hollow or sinus within the body. 
CAW: utter a cry, characteristic of crows, rooks, or ravens
CAXTON: English printer who in 1474 printed the first book in English (1422-1491)
CEASE: (`cease' is a noun only in the phrase `without cease') end
CEBU: 1. an important seaport on the island of Cebu in the Philippines. 2. one of the Visayan islands of the central Philippines; important for its fine harbor. 
CEBUS: type genus of the Cebidae
CECAL: of or like a cecum
CECUM: the cavity in which the large intestine begins and into which the ileum opens
CEDAR: 1. any of numerous trees of the family Cupressaceae that resemble cedars. 2. durable aromatic wood of any of numerous cedar trees; especially wood of the red cedar often used for cedar chests. 3. any cedar of the genus Cedrus. 
CEDARN: consisting of or made of cedar
CEDI: the basic unit of money in Ghana
CEDRUS: true cedars
CEIBA: tropical American trees with palmately compound leaves and showy bell-shaped flowers
CEIBO: small South American spiny tree with dark crimson and scarlet flowers solitary or clustered
CEYLON: an island in the Indian Ocean off the southeastern coast of India
CELERY: 1. widely cultivated herb with aromatic leaf stalks that are eaten raw or cooked. 2. stalks eaten raw or cooked or used as seasoning. 
CELIAC: belonging to or prescribed for celiac disease
CELL: 1. any small compartment. 2. (biology) the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms; they may exist as independent units of life (as in monads) or may form colonies or tissues as in higher plants and animals. 3. a device that delivers an electric current as the result of a chemical reaction. 4. a small unit serving as part of or as the nucleus of a larger political movement. 5. small room in which a monk or nun lives. 6. a room where a prisoner is kept. 
CELLAR: storage space where wines are stored
CELLO: a large stringed instrument; seated player holds it upright while playing
CELOM: a cavity in the mesoderm of an embryo that gives rise in humans to the pleural cavity and pericardial cavity and peritoneal cavity
CELT: a member of a European people who once occupied Britain and Spain and Gaul prior to Roman times
CELTIC: relating to or characteristic of the Celts
CELTIS: large genus of trees and shrubs with berrylike fruit
CEMENT: 1. make fast as if with cement. 2. cover or coat with cement. 3. bind or join with or as if with cement. 4. any of various materials used by dentists to fill cavities in teeth. 
CENSE: perfume especially with a censer
CENSER: a container for burning incense (especially one that is swung on a chain in a religious ritual)
CENSOR: 1. someone who censures or condemns. 2. subject to political, religious, or moral censorship. 
CENSUS: conduct a census
CENT: a fractional monetary unit of several countries
CENTAS: 100 centas equal 1 litas in Lithuania
CENTER: 1. equally distant from the extremes. 2. move into the center. 3. a point equidistant from the ends of a line or the extremities of a figure. 4. the object upon which interest and attention focuses. 5. a cluster of nerve cells governing a specific bodily process. 6. the middle of a military or naval formation. 7. (basketball) the person who plays center on a basketball team. 8. (football) the person who plays center on the line of scrimmage and snaps the ball to the quarterback. 9. a place where some particular activity is concentrated. 10. politically moderate persons; centrists. 11. (ice hockey) the person who plays center on a hockey team. 12. the sweet central portion of a piece of candy that is enclosed in chocolate or some other covering. 13. the position on a hockey team of the player who participates in the face off at the beginning of the game. 14. (American football) the position of the player on the line of scrimmage who puts the ball in play. 15. a position on a basketball team of the player who participates in the jump that starts the game. 16. of or belonging to neither the right nor the left politically or intellectually. 
CENTRE: a low-lying region in central France
CERAS: one of the often brightly colored and branching hornlike structures on the back of the nudibranch (and other related mollusks) that serve as gills
CERATE: a hard medicated paste made of lard or oil mixed with wax or resin
CERCIS: deciduous shrubs and trees of eastern Asia, southern Europe and the United States
CERE: wrap up in a cerecloth
CEREAL: 1. made of grain or relating to grain or the plants that produce it. 2. a breakfast food prepared from grain. 
CERES: 1. (Roman mythology) goddess of agriculture; counterpart of Greek Demeter. 2. the largest asteroid and the first discovered. 
CEREUS: genus of much-branched treelike or shrubby cacti with pronounced ribs and rounded needlelike spines and nocturnal flowers usually white
CERIC: of or relating to or containing cerium especially with valence 4
CERISE: a red the color of ripe cherries
CERIUM: a ductile grey metallic element of the lanthanide series; used in lighter flints; the most abundant of the rare-earth group
CERO: large edible mackerel of temperate United States coastal Atlantic waters
CEROUS: of or relating to or containing cerium with valence 3
CERT: an absolute certainty
CERVIX: necklike opening to the uterus
CERVUS: the type genus of the Cervidae
CESIUM: a soft silver-white ductile metallic element (liquid at normal temperatures); the most electropositive and alkaline metal
CETUS: a large constellation on the equator near Pisces and Aquarius
CHACMA: greyish baboon of southern and eastern Africa
CHAD: 1. a small piece of paper that is supposed to be removed when a hole is punched in a card or paper tape. 2. a landlocked desert republic in north-central Africa; was under French control until 1960. 3. a family of Afroasiatic tonal languages (mostly two tones) spoken in the regions west and south of Lake Chad in north central Africa. 
CHADOR: a cloth used as a head covering (and veil and shawl) by Muslim and Hindu women
CHAETA: a stiff chitinous seta or bristle especially of an annelid worm
CHAFE: 1. become or make sore by or as if by rubbing. 2. feel extreme irritation or anger. 3. tear or wear off the skin or make sore by abrading. 4. warm by rubbing, as with the hands. 
CHAFED: painful from having the skin abraded
CHAFF: 1. material consisting of seed coverings and small pieces of stem or leaves that have been separated from the seeds. 2. foil in thin strips; ejected into the air as a radar countermeasure. 
CHAFFY: 1. abounding in or covered with or resembling or consisting of chaff. 2. value. 
CHAIN: 1. connect or arrange into a chain by linking. 2. fasten or secure with chains. 3. a series of (usually metal) rings or links fitted into one another to make a flexible ligament. 4. (business) a number of similar establishments (stores or restaurants or banks or hotels or theaters) under one ownership. 5. anything that acts as a restraint. 6. a unit of length. 7. British biochemist (born in Germany) who isolated and purified penicillin, which had been discovered in 1928 by Sir Alexander Fleming (1906-1979). 8. a linked or connected series of objects. 9. a necklace made by a stringing objects together; . 
CHAIR: 1. act or preside as chair, as of an academic department in a university. 2. a particular seat in an orchestra. 
CHAISE: a carriage consisting of two wheels and a calash top; drawn by a single horse
CHAIT: the first Hindu calendar month (corresponding to March in the Gregorian calendar)
CHAJA: largest crested screamer; native to southern Brazil and Argentina
CHALET: a Swiss house with a sloping roof and wide eaves or a house built in this style
CHALK: 1. write, draw, or trace with chalk. 2. a pure flat white with little reflectance. 3. a piece of calcite or a similar substance, usually in the shape of a crayon, that is used to write or draw on blackboards or other flat surfaces. 
CHALKY: of something having the color of chalk
CHAMP: chafe at the bit, like horses
CHANCE: 1. a risk involving danger. 2. be the case by chance. 
CHANCY: 1. of uncertain outcome; especially fraught with risk. 2. subject to accident or chance or change. 
CHANDI: malevolent aspect of Devi
CHANGE: 1. cause to change; make different; cause a transformation. 2. undergo a change; become different in essence; losing one's or its original nature. 3. become different in some particular way, without permanently losing one's or its former characteristics or essence. 4. the result of alteration or modification. 5. change clothes; put on different clothes. 6. exchange or replace with another, usually of the same kind or category. 7. a different or fresh set of clothes. 8. coins of small denomination regarded collectively. 9. money received in return for its equivalent in a larger denomination or a different currency. 10. remove or replace the coverings of. 
CHANT: recite with musical intonation; recite as a chant or a psalm
CHAOS: 1. a state of extreme confusion and disorder. 2. the formless and disordered state of matter before the creation of the cosmos. 3. (Greek mythology) the most ancient of gods; the personification of the infinity of space preceding creation of the universe. 4. (physics) a dynamical system that is extremely sensitive to its initial conditions. 
CHAP: 1. crack due to dehydration. 2. a crack in a lip caused usually by cold. 3. (usually in the plural) leather leggings without a seat; joined by a belt; often have flared outer flaps; worn over trousers by cowboys to protect their legs. 
CHAPEL: a place of worship that has its own altar
CHAR: 1. burn to charcoal. 2. any of several small trout-like fish of the genus Salvelinus. 3. burn slightly and superficially so as to affect color. 
CHARA: green algae common in freshwater lakes of limestone districts
CHARD: 1. beet lacking swollen root; grown as a vegetable for its edible leaves and stalks. 2. long succulent whitish stalks with large green leaves. 
CHARGE: 1. to make a rush at or sudden attack upon, as in battle. 2. blame for, make a claim of wrongdoing or misbehavior against. 3. demand payment. 4. the quantity of unbalanced electricity in a body (either positive or negative) and construed as an excess or deficiency of electrons. 5. make an accusatory claim. 6. fill or load to capacity. 7. request for payment of a debt. 8. heraldry consisting of a design or image depicted on a shield. 9. place a heraldic bearing on. 10. file a formal charge against. 11. enter a certain amount as a charge. 12. pay with a credit card; pay with plastic money; postpone payment by recording a purchase as a debt. 13. lie down on command, of hunting dogs. 14. direct into a position for use. 15. impose a task upon, assign a responsibility to. 16. instruct (a jury) about the law, its application, and the weighing of evidence. 17. instruct or command with authority. 18. set or ask for a certain price. 19. cause formation of a net electrical charge in or on. 20. energize a battery by passing a current through it in the direction opposite to discharge. 21. saturate. 
CHARM: 1. protect through supernatural powers or charms. 2. induce into action by using one's charm. 3. control by magic spells, as by practicing witchcraft. 
CHARON: (Greek mythology) the ferryman who brought the souls of the dead across the river Styx or the river Acheron to Hades
CHART: 1. make a chart of. 2. plan in detail. 
CHASE: 1. pursue someone sexually or romantically. 2. cut a groove into. 3. go after with the intent to catch. 
CHASER: a drink to follow immediately after another drink
CHASM: a deep opening in the earth's surface
CHASSE: perform a chasse step, in ballet
CHASTE: 1. morally pure (especially not having experienced sexual intercourse). 2. pure and simple in design or style. 3. abstaining from unlawful sexual intercourse. 
CHAT: an informal conversation
CHATTY: 1. full of trivial conversation. 2. prone to friendly informal communication. 
CHAUNA: crested screamers
CHAW: chew without swallowing
CHEAP: 1. relatively low in price or charging low prices. 2. embarrassingly stingy. 
CHEAT: 1. a deception for profit to yourself. 2. deprive somebody of something by deceit. 3. defeat someone through trickery or deceit. 4. engage in deceitful behavior; practice trickery or fraud. 
CHECK: 1. examine so as to determine accuracy, quality, or condition. 2. the bill in a restaurant. 3. put a check mark on or near or next to. 4. a mark left after a small piece has been chopped or broken off of something. 5. block or impede (a player from the opposing team) in ice hockey. 6. consign for shipment on a vehicle. 7. hand over something to somebody as for temporary safekeeping. 8. make an examination or investigation. 9. stop for a moment, as if out of uncertainty or caution. 10. slow the growth or development of. 11. be verified or confirmed; pass inspection. 12. abandon the intended prey, turn, and pursue an inferior prey. 13. stop in a chase especially when scent is lost. 14. mark into squares or draw squares on; draw crossed lines on. 15. decline to initiate betting. 16. hold back, as of a danger or an enemy; check the expansion or influence of. 17. place into check. 18. write out a check on a bank account. 19. verify by consulting a source or authority. 20. arrest the motion (of something) abruptly. 21. make cracks or chinks in. 
CHEEK: speak impudently to
CHEEP: the short weak cry of a young bird
CHEER: 1. give encouragement to. 2. show approval or good wishes by shouting. 3. cause (somebody) to feel happier or more cheerful. 4. become cheerful. 5. spur on or encourage especially by cheers and shouts. 
CHEERY: bright and pleasant; promoting a feeling of cheer
CHEESE: 1. used in the imperative (get away, or stop it). 2. wind onto a cheese. 
CHEF: a professional cook
CHELA: a Hindu disciple of a swami
CHEN: wild goose having white adult plumage
CHEOPS: Egyptian Pharaoh of the 27th century BC who commissioned the Great Pyramid at Giza
CHEQUE: withdraw money by writing a check
CHERRY: 1. wood of any of various cherry trees especially the black cherry. 2. any of numerous trees and shrubs producing a small fleshy round fruit with a single hard stone; many also produce a valuable hardwood. 3. a red fruit with a single hard stone. 
CHERT: variety of silica containing microcrystalline quartz
CHERTY: resembling or containing chert
CHERUB: 1. a sweet innocent baby. 2. an angel of the second order whose gift is knowledge; usually portrayed as a winged child. 
CHESS: 1. weedy annual native to Europe but widely distributed as a weed especially in wheat. 2. a board game for two players who move their 16 pieces according to specific rules; the object is to checkmate the opponent's king. 
CHEST: box with a lid; used for storage; usually large and sturdy
CHEW: 1. chew (food); to bite and grind with the teeth. 2. biting and grinding food in your mouth so it becomes soft enough to swallow. 
CHEWA: a member of the Bantu-speaking people of Malawi and eastern Zambia and northern Zimbabwe
CHEWER: someone who chews (especially someone who chews tobacco)
CHEWY: 1. requiring much chewing. 2. (of a consistency) requiring chewing. 
CHIAN: of or relating to Chios
CHIC: elegant and stylish
CHICHI: affectedly trendy and fashionable
CHICK: young bird especially of domestic fowl
CHICLE: gum-like substance from the sapodilla
CHIEF: most important element
CHIGOE: small tropical flea; the fertile female burrows under the skin of the host including humans
CHILD: 1. a young person of either sex. 2. a human offspring (son or daughter) of any age. 3. an immature childish person. 4. a member of a clan or tribe. 
CHILE: a republic in southern South America on the western slopes of the Andes on the south Pacific coast
CHYLE: a milky fluid consisting of lymph and emulsified fats; formed in the small intestine during digestion of ingested fats
CHILI: 1. ground beef and chili peppers or chili powder often with tomatoes and kidney beans. 2. very hot and finely tapering pepper of special pungency. 
CHILL: 1. depress or discourage. 2. a sensation of cold that often marks the start of an infection and the development of a fever. 3. a sudden numbing dread. 
CHILLY: 1. not characterized by emotion. 2. appreciably or disagreeably cold. 3. lacking warmth of feeling. 
CHIME: emit a sound
CHYME: a semiliquid mass of partially digested food that passes from the stomach through the pyloric sphincter into the duodenum
CHIN: raise oneself while hanging from one's hands until one's chin is level with the support bar
CHINA: 1. a communist nation that covers a vast territory in eastern Asia; the most populous country in the world. 2. high quality porcelain originally made only in China. 
CHINE: 1. cut through the backbone of an animal. 2. backbone of an animal. 
CHINK: 1. (ethnic slur) offensive term for a person of Chinese descent. 2. fill the chinks of, as with caulking. 3. a short light metallic sound. 
CHINO: 1. trousers made with chino cloth. 2. a coarse twilled cotton fabric frequently used for uniforms. 
CHINTZ: a brightly printed and glazed cotton fabric
CHIOS: an island in the Aegean Sea off the west coast of Turkey; belongs to Greece
CHIP: 1. a triangular wooden float attached to the end of a log line. 2. play a chip shot. 3. form by chipping. 4. a small disk-shaped counter used to represent money when gambling. 5. electronic equipment consisting of a small crystal of a silicon semiconductor fabricated to carry out a number of electronic functions in an integrated circuit. 6. (golf) a low running approach shot. 7. the act of chipping something. 8. break off (a piece from a whole). 9. break a small piece off from. 
CHIRK: make a shrill creaking, squeaking, or noise, as of a door, mouse, or bird
CHIRON: 1. (Greek mythology) the learned centaur who tutored Achilles, Asclepius, Hercules, Jason, and other heroes. 2. an asteroid discovered in 1977; it is unique in having an orbit lying mainly between the orbits of Saturn and Uranus. 
CHIRP: a sharp sound made by small birds or insects
CHIRPY: (birds or insects) characterized by or tending to chirp
CHIRR: make a vibrant noise, of grasshoppers or cicadas
CHISEL: 1. an edge tool with a flat steel blade with a cutting edge. 2. carve with a chisel. 
CHIT: a dismissive term for a girl who is immature or who lacks respect
CHITIN: a tough semitransparent horny substance; the principal component of the exoskeletons of arthropods and the cell walls of certain fungi
CHITON: 1. a woolen tunic worn by men and women in ancient Greece. 2. primitive elongated bilaterally symmetrical marine mollusk having a mantle covered with eight calcareous plates. 
CHIVES: 1. perennial having hollow cylindrical leaves used for seasoning. 2. cylindrical leaves used fresh as a mild onion-flavored seasoning. 
CHOCK: 1. as completely as possible. 2. support on chocks. 
CHOICE: 1. of superior grade. 2. appealing to refined taste. 
CHOIR: 1. sing in a choir. 2. a family of similar musical instrument playing together. 3. the area occupied by singers; the part of the chancel between sanctuary and nave. 
CHOKE: 1. breathe with great difficulty, as when experiencing a strong emotion. 2. be too tight; rub or press. 3. wring the neck of. 4. constrict (someone's) throat and keep from breathing. 5. fail to perform adequately due to tension or agitation. 6. check or slow down the action or effect of. 7. reduce the air supply. 
CHOKED: stopped up; clogged up
CHOKEY: British slang (dated) for a prison
CHOKER: 1. an unfortunate person who is unable to perform effectively because of nervous tension or agitation. 2. necklace that fits tightly around a woman's neck. 3. a high tight collar. 
CHOKY: so tight as to tend to choke
CHOLLA: arborescent cacti having very spiny cylindrical stem segments; southwestern United States and Mexico
CHOMP: chew noisily
CHON: 1. 100 chon equal 1 won in South Korea. 2. 100 chon equal 1 won in North Korea. 
CHOOSE: 1. pick out, select, or choose from a number of alternatives. 2. select as an alternative over another. 3. see fit or proper to act in a certain way; decide to act in a certain way. 
CHOOSY: difficult to please
CHOP: 1. cut into pieces. 2. move suddenly. 3. form or shape by chopping. 4. strike sharply, as in some sports. 5. cut with a hacking tool. 6. hit sharply. 
CHOPIN: 1. the music of Chopin. 2. United States writer who described Creole life in Louisiana (1851-1904). 3. French composer (born in Poland) and pianist of the romantic school (1810-1849). 
CHOPPY: 1. marked by abrupt transitions. 2. rough with small waves. 
CHORAL: related to or written for or performed by a chorus or choir
CHORD: 1. play chords on (a string instrument). 2. a combination of three or more notes that blend harmoniously when sounded together. 
CHOREA: any of several degenerative nervous disorders characterized by spasmodic movements of the body and limbs
CHORIC: relating to or written for or in the style of a Greek chorus
CHORUS: 1. utter in unison. 2. a group of people assembled to sing together. 3. a body of dancers or singers who perform together. 4. a company of actors who comment (by speaking or singing in unison) on the action in a classical Greek play. 
CHOSEN: 1. one who is the object of choice; who is given preference. 2. the name for Korea as a Japanese province (1910-1945). 3. an exclusive group of people. 
CHOUGH: a European corvine bird of small or medium size with red legs and glossy black plumage
CHOW: 1. informal terms for a meal. 2. breed of medium-sized dogs with a thick coat and fluffy curled tails and distinctive blue-black tongues; believed to have originated in northern China. 
CHRISM: a consecrated ointment consisting of a mixture of oil and balsam
CHROME: 1. plate with chromium. 2. treat with a chromium compound. 
CHUB: European freshwater game fish with a thick spindle-shaped body
CHUBBY: sufficiently fat so as to have a pleasing fullness of figure; 
CHUCK: 1. throw away. 2. pat or squeeze fondly or playfully, especially under the chin. 3. throw carelessly. 
CHUFA: European sedge having small edible nutlike tubers
CHUG: make a dull, explosive sound
CHUKKA: a shoe that comes up to the ankle and is laced through two or three pairs of eyelets; often made of suede
CHUM: bait consisting of chopped fish and fish oils that are dumped overboard to attract fish
CHUMMY: 1. (used colloquially) having the relationship of friends or pals. 2. (used informally) associated on close terms. 
CHUMP: a person who is gullible and easy to take advantage of
CHUNGA: Argentinian Cariama
CHUNK: a substantial amount
CHUNKY: 1. like or containing small sticky lumps. 2. short and thick; as e.g. having short legs and heavy musculature. 
CHURCH: 1. perform a special church rite or service for. 2. a place for public (especially Christian) worship. 3. the body of people who attend or belong to a particular local church. 
CHURN: 1. stir (cream) vigorously in order to make butter. 2. be agitated. 
CHURR: make a vibrant sound, as of some birds
CHUTE: 1. sloping channel through which things can descend. 2. jump from an airplane and descend with a parachute. 
CYAMUS: whale lice
CYAN: a primary subtractive color for light; has a blue-green color
CYBORG: a human being whose body has been taken over in whole or in part by electromechanical devices
CYCAD: any tropical gymnosperm of the order Cycadales; having unbranched stems with a crown of fernlike leaves
CICADA: stout-bodied insect with large membranous wings; male has drum-like organs for producing a high-pitched drone
CYCAS: type genus of Cycadaceae: genus of widely distributed Old World evergreen tropical trees having pinnate leaves and columnar stems covered with persistent bases of old leaves
CICER: chickpea plant; Asiatic herbs
CICERO: 1. a linear unit of the size of type slightly larger than an em. 2. a Roman statesman and orator remembered for his mastery of Latin prose (106-43 BC). 
CYCLE: 1. cause to go through a recurring sequence. 2. pass through a cycle. 3. a periodically repeated sequence of events. 4. recur in repeating sequences. 
CYCLIC: 1. conforming to the Carnot cycle. 2. forming a whorl or having parts arranged in a whorl. 3. of a compound having atoms arranged in a ring structure. 4. recurring in cycles. 5. marked by repeated cycles. 
CICUTA: small genus of perennial herbs having deadly poisonous tuberous roots: water hemlock
CIDER: a beverage made from juice pressed from apples
CIGAR: a roll of tobacco for smoking
CYGNET: a young swan
CYGNUS: 1. a constellation in the northern hemisphere between Pegasus and Draco in the Milky Way; contains a black hole. 2. a genus of Anatidae. 
CILIUM: a hairlike projection from the surface of a cell; provides locomotion in free-swimming unicellular organisms
CYMA: (architecture) a molding for a cornice; in profile it is shaped like an S (partly concave and partly convex)
CYMBAL: a percussion instrument consisting of a concave brass disk; makes a loud crashing sound when hit with a drumstick or when two are struck together
CYMBID: any of various plants of the genus Cymbidium having narrow leaves and a long drooping cluster of numerous showy and variously colored boat-shaped flowers; extensively hybridized and cultivated as houseplants and important florists' flowers
CYME: more or less flat-topped cluster of flowers in which the central or terminal flower opens first
CYMENE: any of three isotopes of a colorless aromatic liquid hydrocarbon occurring in the volatile oil of cumin and thyme and used in the manufacture of synthetic resins
CIMEX: type genus of the Cimicidae: bedbugs
CYMOSE: having a usually flat-topped flower cluster in which the main and branch stems each end in a flower that opens before those below it or to its side
CYMULE: a small cyme, generally with few flowers
CYNARA: artichoke; cardoon
CINCH: 1. tie a cinch around. 2. make sure of. 3. get a grip on; get mastery of. 
CINDER: a fragment of incombustible matter left after a wood or coal or charcoal fire
CINEMA: a theater where films are shown
CYNIC: 1. someone who is critical of the motives of others. 2. a member of a group of ancient Greek philosophers who advocated the doctrine that virtue is the only good and that the essence of virtue is self-control. 
CYNIPS: type genus of the Cynipidae: gall wasps
CIPHER: 1. a message written in a secret code. 2. a person of no influence. 3. a secret method of writing. 
CYPRUS: 1. a country on the island of Cyprus; 80% of the people are of Greek origin and 20% or Turkish origin. 2. an island in the eastern Mediterranean. 
CIRCE: (Greek mythology) a sorceress who detained Odysseus on her island and turned his men into swine
CIRCLE: 1. travel around something. 2. something approximating the shape of a circle. 3. a curved section or tier of seats in a hall or theater or opera house; usually the first tier above the orchestra. 4. any circular or rotating mechanism. 5. move in circles. 
CIRCUS: 1. a travelling company of entertainers; including trained animals. 2. a performance given by a traveling company of acrobats, clowns, and trained animals. 3. a frenetic disorganized (and often comic) disturbance suggestive of a large public entertainment. 4. (antiquity) an open-air stadium for chariot races and gladiatorial games. 5. an arena consisting of an oval or circular area enclosed by tiers of seats and usually covered by a tent. 6. a genus of haws comprising the harriers. 
CYRIL: Greek missionary; the invention of the Cyrillic alphabet is attributed to him (826-869)
CIRQUE: a steep-walled semicircular basin in a mountain; may contain a lake
CIRRUS: 1. usually coiled. 2. a wispy white cloud (usually of fine ice crystals) at a high altitude (4 to 8 miles). 3. a slender flexible animal appendage as on barnacles or crinoids or many insects; often tactile. 
CYRUS: Persian prince who was defeated in battle by his brother Artaxerxes II (424-401 BC)
CISCO: important food fish of cold deep lakes of North America
CYST: a closed sac that develops abnormally in some body structure
CYSTIC: 1. of or relating to a normal cyst (as the gallbladder or urinary bladder). 2. of or relating to or resembling a cyst. 
CISTUS: small to medium-sized evergreen shrubs of southern Europe and North Africa
CITY: 1. a large and densely populated urban area; may include several independent administrative districts. 2. an incorporated administrative district established by state charter. 3. people living in a large densely populated municipality. 
CITIFY: accustom to urban ways
CITRIC: of or related to citric acid
CITRON: 1. large lemonlike fruit with thick aromatic rind; usually preserved. 2. thorny evergreen small tree or shrub of India widely cultivated for its large lemonlike fruits that have thick warty rind. 
CITRUS: 1. any of numerous fruits of the genus Citrus having thick rind and juicy pulp; grown in warm regions. 2. any of numerous tropical usually thorny evergreen trees of the genus Citrus having leathery evergreen leaves and widely cultivated for their juicy edible fruits having leathery aromatic rinds. 
CIVET: cat-like mammal typically secreting musk used in perfumes
CIVIC: of or relating or belonging to a city
CIVICS: the social science of municipal affairs
CIVIES: civilian garb as opposed to a military uniform
CIVIL: 1. applying to ordinary citizens as contrasted with the military. 2. not rude; marked by satisfactory (or especially minimal) adherence to social usages and sufficient but not noteworthy consideration for others. 3. of or occurring within the state or between or among citizens of the state. 4. of or relating to or befitting citizens as individuals. 5. (of divisions of time) legally recognized in ordinary affairs of life. 6. of or in a condition of social order. 
CLACK: a sharp abrupt noise as if two objects hit together; may be repeated
CLAD: having an outer covering especially of thin metal
CLADE: a group of biological taxa or species that share features inherited from a common ancestor
CLAY: 1. a very fine-grained soil that is plastic when moist but hard when fired. 2. United States general who commanded United States forces in Europe from 1945 to 1949 and who oversaw the Berlin airlift (1897-1978). 3. United States politician responsible for the Missouri Compromise between free and slave states (1777-1852). 
CLAYEY: (used of soil) compact and fine-grained
CLAIM: 1. assert or affirm strongly; state to be true or existing. 2. demand as being one's due or property; assert one's right or title to. 3. ask for legally or make a legal claim to, as of debts, for example. 4. lay claim to; as of an idea. 5. take as an undesirable consequence of some event or state of affairs. 
CLAM: 1. gather clams, by digging in the sand by the ocean. 2. flesh of either hard-shell or soft-shell clams. 
CLAMMY: unpleasantly cool and humid
CLAMOR: 1. utter or proclaim insistently and noisily. 2. make loud demands. 3. compel someone to do something by insistent clamoring. 
CLAMP: 1. fasten or fix with a clamp. 2. impose or inflict forcefully. 
CLANG: make a loud noise
CLANK: make a clank
CLAP: 1. put quickly or forcibly. 2. cause to strike the air in flight. 3. clap one's hands together. 4. strike the air in flight. 5. strike with the flat of the hand; usually in a friendly way, as in encouragement or greeting. 6. strike together so as to produce a sharp percussive noise. 
CLAQUE: a group of followers hired to applaud at a performance
CLARET: 1. drink claret. 2. dry red Bordeaux or Bordeaux-like wine. 
CLARY: aromatic herb of southern Europe; cultivated in Great Britain as a potherb and widely as an ornamental
CLARO: a cigar made with light-colored tobacco
CLASH: 1. be incompatible; be or come into conflict. 2. disagree violently. 
CLASP: 1. hold firmly and tightly. 2. the act of grasping. 3. grasp firmly. 
CLASS: 1. a collection of things sharing a common attribute. 2. a body of students who are taught together. 3. people having the same social, economic, or educational status. 4. a league ranked by quality. 5. a body of students who graduate together. 6. (biology) a taxonomic group containing one or more orders. 7. elegance in dress or behavior. 
CLASSY: elegant and fashionable
CLAST: (geology) a constituent fragment of a clastic rock
CLAUSE: (grammar) an expression including a subject and predicate but not constituting a complete sentence
CLAW: 1. move as if by clawing, seizing, or digging. 2. scratch, scrape, pull, or dig with claws or nails. 3. attack as if with claws. 4. clutch as if in panic. 
CLAWED: 1. having or resembling a claw or claws; often used as a combining form. 2. (of predatory animals) armed with claws or talons. 
CLEAN: 1. completely; used as intensifiers. 2. free of restrictions or qualifications. 3. (of a record) having no marks of discredit or offense. 4. ritually clean or pure. 5. not spreading pollution or contamination; especially radioactive contamination. 6. (of behavior or especially language) free from objectionable elements; fit for all observers. 7. morally pure. 8. (of sound or color) free from anything that dulls or dims. 9. free from impurities. 10. (of a manuscript) having few alterations or corrections. 11. exhibiting or calling for sportsmanship or fair play. 12. without difficulties or problems. 13. thorough and without qualification. 14. not carrying concealed weapons. 15. free from clumsiness; precisely or deftly executed. 16. free of drugs. 
CLEAR: 1. completely. 2. free from confusion or doubt. 3. free from contact or proximity or connection. 4. be debited and credited to the proper bank accounts. 5. (especially of a title) free from any encumbrance or limitation that presents a question of fact or law. 6. clear and distinct to the senses; easily perceptible. 7. make free from confusion or ambiguity; make clear. 8. free from clouds or mist or haze. 9. clear from impurities, blemishes, pollution, etc.. 10. sell. 11. characterized by ease and quickness in perceiving. 12. settle, as of a debt. 13. make clear, bright, light, or translucent. 14. rid of instructions or data. 15. remove (people) from a building. 16. remove the occupants of. 17. free (the throat) by making a rasping sound. 18. affording free passage or view. 19. allowing light to pass through. 20. characterized by freedom from troubling thoughts (especially guilt). 21. free from flaw or blemish or impurity. 22. clear of charges or deductions. 23. easily deciphered. 
CLEAT: 1. provide with cleats. 2. secure on a cleat. 3. a strip of wood or metal used to strengthen the surface to which it is attached. 
CLEATS: shoes with leather or metal projections on the soles
CLEAVE: 1. separate or cut with a tool, such as a sharp instrument. 2. make by cutting into. 
CLEF: a musical notation written on a staff indicating the pitch of the notes following it
CLEFT: having one or more incisions reaching nearly to the midrib
CLENCH: 1. hold in a tight grasp. 2. squeeze together tightly. 
CLERGY: in Christianity, clergymen collectively (as distinguished from the laity)
CLERIC: a clergyman or other person in religious orders
CLERK: work as a clerk, as in the legal business
CLEVER: showing inventiveness and skill
CLEVIS: a coupler shaped like the letter U with holes through each end so a bolt or pin can pass through the holes to complete the coupling; used to attach a drawbar to a plow or wagon or trailer etc.
CLEW: a ball of yarn or cord or thread
CLEWS: the cords used to suspend a hammock
CLICHY: a northwestern suburb of Paris; the residence of the Merovingian royalty in the 7th century
CLICK: 1. depression of a button on a computer mouse. 2. make a clicking or ticking sound. 3. produce a click. 4. become clear or enter one's consciousness or emotions. 
CLYDE: a river in western Scotland that flows from the southern uplands into the Firth of Clyde; navigable by oceangoing vessels as far as Glasgow
CLIENT: a person who seeks the advice of a lawyer
CLIFF: a steep high face of rock
CLIMAX: 1. the highest point of anything conceived of as growing or developing or unfolding. 2. the decisive moment in a novel or play. 3. the most severe stage of a disease. 4. arrangement of clauses in ascending order of forcefulness. 
CLIMB: 1. move with difficulty, by grasping. 2. the act of climbing something. 3. go upward with gradual or continuous progress. 4. slope upward. 5. improve one's social status. 
CLINCH: 1. secure or fasten by flattening the ends of nails or bolts. 2. hold a boxing opponent with one or both arms so as to prevent punches. 3. the flattened part of a nail or bolt or rivet. 4. embrace amorously. 5. flatten the ends (of nails and rivets). 6. settle conclusively. 
CLINE: American geneticist who succeeded in transferring a functioning gene from one mouse to another (born in 1934)
CLING: 1. come or be in close contact with; stick or hold together and resist separation. 2. to remain emotionally or intellectually attached. 3. hold on tightly or tenaciously. 
CLINIC: 1. a medical establishment run by a group of medical specialists. 2. meeting for diagnosis of problems and instruction or remedial work in a particular activity. 3. a healthcare facility for outpatient care. 
CLINID: mostly small blennioid fishes of coral reefs and seagrass beds
CLINK: make a high sound typical of glass
CLIO: (Greek mythology) the Muse of history
CLIP: 1. attach with a clip. 2. an article of jewelry that can be clipped onto a hat or dress. 3. terminate or abbreviate before its intended or proper end or its full extent. 4. a sharp slanting blow. 
CLIQUE: an exclusive circle of people with a common purpose
CLIVE: British general and statesman whose victory at Plassey in 1757 strengthened British control of India (1725-1774)
CLOACA: (zoology) the cavity (in birds, reptiles, amphibians, most fish, and monotremes but not mammals) at the end of the digestive tract into which the intestinal, genital, and urinary tracts open
CLOAK: 1. anything that covers or conceals. 2. a loose outer garment. 3. cover with or as if with a cloak. 
CLOCHE: 1. a low transparent cover put over young plants to protect them from cold. 2. a woman's close-fitting hat that resembles a helmet. 
CLOCK: measure the time or duration of an event or action or the person who performs an action in a certain period of time
CLOG: 1. become or cause to become obstructed. 2. dance a clog dance. 3. impede the motion of, as with a chain or a burden. 4. impede with a clog or as if with a clog. 5. coalesce or unite in a mass. 6. fill to excess so that function is impaired. 
CLOY: cause surfeit through excess though initially pleasing
CLONAL: of or relating to a clone
CLONE: 1. a group of genetically identical cells or organisms derived from a single cell or individual by some kind of asexual reproduction. 2. make multiple identical copies of. 
CLONIC: of or relating to abnormal neuromuscular activity characterized by rapidly alternating muscle contraction and relaxation
CLONUS: convulsion characterized by alternating contractions and relaxations
CLOP: make or move along with a sound as of a horse's hooves striking the ground
CLOROX: a commercial bleaching agent
CLOSE: 1. at or within a short distance in space or time or having elements near each other. 2. in an attentive manner. 3. rigorously attentive; strict and thorough. 4. (of a contest or contestants) evenly matched. 5. crowded. 6. engage at close quarters. 7. of textiles. 8. strictly confined or guarded. 9. confined to specific persons. 10. fitting closely but comfortably. 11. used of hair or haircuts. 12. bar access to. 13. inclined to secrecy or reticence about divulging information. 14. finish a game in baseball by protecting a lead. 15. marked by fidelity to an original. 
CLOSED: 1. not open or affording passage or access. 2. (set theory) of an interval that contains both its endpoints. 3. used especially of mouth or eyes. 4. requiring union membership. 5. with shutters closed. 6. not open to the general public. 7. not having an open mind. 8. blocked against entry. 
CLOSER: 1. a person who closes something. 2. (baseball) a relief pitcher who can protect a lead in the last inning or two of the game. 
CLOSET: 1. a small private room for study or prayer. 2. confine to a small space, as for intensive work. 
CLOT: 1. change from a liquid to a thickened or solid state. 2. cause to change from a liquid to a solid or thickened state. 
CLOTHE: cover as if with clothing
CLOUD: 1. any collection of particles (e.g., smoke or dust) or gases that is visible. 2. a visible mass of water or ice particles suspended at a considerable altitude. 3. billow up in the form of a cloud. 4. make gloomy or depressed. 5. suspicion affecting your reputation. 6. make less clear. 7. make milky or dull. 
CLOUDY: 1. lacking definite form or limits. 2. full of or covered with clouds. 3. (of liquids) clouded as with sediment. 
CLOUT: strike hard, especially with the fist
CLOVE: 1. aromatic flower bud of a clove tree; yields a spice. 2. moderate sized very symmetrical red-flowered evergreen widely cultivated in the tropics for its flower buds which are source of cloves. 3. one of the small bulblets that can be split off of the axis of a larger garlic bulb. 4. spice from dried unopened flower bud of the clove tree; used whole or ground. 
CLOVEN: (used of hooves) split, divided
CLOVER: a plant of the genus Trifolium
CLOVIS: king of the Franks who unified Gaul and established his capital at Paris and founded the Frankish monarchy; his name was rendered as Gallic `Louis' (466-511)
CLOWN: 1. act as or like a clown. 2. a person who amuses others by ridiculous behavior. 
CLOZE: based on or being a test of reading skill using the cloze procedure
CLUB: 1. gather and spend time together. 2. strike with a club or a bludgeon. 3. a playing card in the minor suit that has one or more black trefoils on it. 4. unite with a common purpose. 5. gather into a club-like mass. 
CLUCK: make a clucking sounds, characteristic of hens
CLUE: 1. evidence that helps to solve a problem. 2. roll into a ball. 
CLUMP: walk clumsily
CLUNCH: hardened clay
CLUNKY: making a clunking sound
CLUPEA: type genus of the Clupeidae: typical herrings
CLUSIA: an aromatic tree of the genus Clusia having large white or yellow or pink flowers
CLUTCH: 1. a tense critical situation. 2. a number of birds hatched at the same time. 3. a pedal or lever that engages or disengages a rotating shaft and a driving mechanism. 4. a coupling that connects or disconnects driving and driven parts of a driving mechanism. 
CNICUS: one species: blessed thistle
COACH: 1. teach and supervise (someone); act as a trainer or coach (to), as in sports. 2. drive a coach. 3. a carriage pulled by four horses with one driver. 
COACT: act together, as of organisms
COAL: 1. fossil fuel consisting of carbonized vegetable matter deposited in the Carboniferous period. 2. supply with coal. 3. take in coal. 
COAPT: 1. cause to adhere. 2. fit tightly and fasten. 
COARSE: 1. of textures that are rough to the touch or substances consisting of relatively large particles. 2. lacking refinement or cultivation or taste. 3. of low or inferior quality or value. 
COAST: 1. a slope down which sleds may coast. 2. the area within view. 3. move effortlessly; by force of gravity. 
COAT: 1. put a coat on; cover the surface of; furnish with a surface. 2. form a coat over. 3. cover or provide with a coat. 
COATED: 1. having a coating; covered with an outer layer or film; often used in combination. 2. having or dressed in a coat. 
COATEE: a short close-fitting coat
COATI: omnivorous mammal of Central America and South America
COB: 1. stocky short-legged harness horse. 2. adult male swan. 
COBALT: a hard ferromagnetic silver-white bivalent or trivalent metallic element; a trace element in plant and animal nutrition
COBBER: Australian term for a pal
COBBLE: 1. pave with cobblestones. 2. repair or mend. 
COBIA: large dark-striped tropical food and game fish related to remoras; found worldwide in coastal to open waters
COBNUT: small nut-bearing tree much grown in Europe
COBOL: common business-oriented language
COBRA: venomous Asiatic and African elapid snakes that can expand the skin of the neck into a hood
COBWEB: 1. a fabric so delicate and transparent as to resemble a web of a spider. 2. filaments from a web that was spun by a spider. 3. a dense elaborate spider web that is more efficient than the orb web. 
COCA: 1. United States comedienne who starred in early television shows with Sid Caesar (1908-2001). 2. dried leaves of the coca plant (and related plants that also contain cocaine); chewed by Andean people for their stimulating effect. 
COCCAL: of or pertaining to or resembling a coccus
COCCYX: the end of the vertebral column in humans and tailless apes
COCCUS: any spherical or nearly spherical bacteria
COCHIN: Asian breed of large fowl with dense plumage and feathered legs
COCK: 1. tilt or slant to one side. 2. adult male chicken. 3. adult male bird. 4. set the trigger of a firearm back for firing. 
COCKY: overly self-confident or self-assertive
COCKLE: 1. common edible European bivalve. 2. common edible, burrowing European bivalve mollusk that has a strong, rounded shell with radiating ribs. 
COCOA: 1. a beverage made from cocoa powder and milk and sugar; usually drunk hot. 2. powder of ground roasted cacao beans with most of the fat removed. 
COCOON: 1. retreat as if into a cocoon, as from an unfriendly environment. 2. wrap in or as if in a cocoon, as for protection. 
COCOS: coconut palms
COCUS: (Greek mythology) one of the Titans
COD: 1. lean white flesh of important North Atlantic food fish; usually baked or poached. 2. major food fish of Arctic and cold-temperate waters. 
CODDLE: cook in nearly boiling water
CODE: 1. attach a code to. 2. convert ordinary language into code. 3. (computer science) the symbolic arrangement of data or instructions in a computer program or the set of such instructions. 
CODEX: 1. an official list of chemicals or medicines etc.. 2. an unbound manuscript of some ancient classic (as distinguished from a scroll). 
CODGER: used affectionately to refer to an eccentric but amusing old man
CODIFY: organize into a code or system, such as a body of law
CODON: a specific sequence of three adjacent nucleotides on a strand of DNA or RNA that specifies the genetic code information for synthesizing a particular amino acid
CO-ED: attended by members of both sexes
COERCE: to cause to do through pressure or necessity, by physical, moral or intellectual means :"She forced him to take a job in the city"
COFFEA: coffee trees
COFFEE: 1. a beverage consisting of an infusion of ground coffee beans. 2. any of several small trees and shrubs native to the tropical Old World yielding coffee beans. 
COFFER: 1. an ornamental sunken panel in a ceiling or dome. 2. a chest especially for storing valuables. 
COFFIN: place into a coffin
COG: 1. roll steel ingots. 2. join pieces of wood with cogs. 
COGENT: powerfully persuasive
COGGED: having cogs
COGNAC: high quality grape brandy distilled in the Cognac district of France
COHERE: 1. cause to form a united, orderly, and aesthetically consistent whole. 2. have internal elements or parts logically connected so that aesthetic consistency results. 
COHN: German botanist who is generally recognized as founding bacteriology when he recognized bacteria as plants
COHO: small salmon of northern Pacific coasts and the Great Lakes
COHORT: 1. a company of companions or supporters. 2. a band of warriors (originally a unit of a Roman Legion). 
COY: 1. affectedly modest or shy especially in a playful or provocative way. 2. showing marked and often playful or irritating evasiveness or reluctance to make a definite or committing statement. 3. modestly or warily rejecting approaches or overtures. 
COYDOG: offspring of a coyote and a dog
COIF: 1. a skullcap worn by nuns under a veil or by soldiers under a hood of mail or formerly by British sergeants-at-law. 2. cover with a coif. 
COIGUE: Chilean evergreen whose leafy boughs are used for thatching
COIL: 1. a structure consisting of something wound in a continuous series of loops. 2. a round shape formed by a series of concentric circles (as formed by leaves or flower petals). 3. wind around something in coils or loops. 4. a contraceptive device placed inside a woman's womb. 5. tubing that is wound in a spiral. 6. reactor consisting of a spiral of insulated wire that introduces inductance into a circuit. 
COILED: curled or wound (especially in concentric rings or spirals)
COYLY: in a coy manner
COIN: make up
COINER: 1. a maker of counterfeit coins. 2. someone who is a source of new words or new expressions. 3. a skilled worker who coins or stamps money. 
COYOL: tropical American palm having edible nuts and yielding a useful fiber
COYOTE: 1. small wolf native to western North America. 2. someone who smuggles illegal immigrants into the United States (usually across the Mexican border). 3. a forest fire fighter who is sent to battle remote and severe forest fires (often for days at a time). 
COYPU: aquatic South American rodent resembling a small beaver; bred for its fur
COIR: stiff coarse fiber from the outer husk of a coconut
COITAL: of or relating to coitus or copulation
COKE: 1. become coke. 2. street names for cocaine. 
COL: a pass between mountain peaks
COLA: 1. large genus of African trees bearing kola nuts. 2. carbonated drink flavored with extract from kola nuts (`dope' is a southernism in the United States). 
COLD: 1. having a low or inadequate temperature or feeling a sensation of coldness or having been made cold by e.g. ice or refrigeration. 2. having lost freshness through passage of time. 3. extended meanings; especially of psychological coldness; without human warmth or emotion. 4. (color) giving no sensation of warmth. 5. marked by errorless familiarity. 6. lacking originality or spontaneity; no longer new. 7. so intense as to be almost uncontrollable. 8. sexually unresponsive. 9. without compunction or human feeling. 10. feeling or showing no enthusiasm. 11. unconscious from a blow or shock or intoxication. 12. of a seeker; far from the object sought. 13. lacking the warmth of life. 
COLDLY: in a cold unemotional manner
COLEUS: any of various Old World tropical plants of the genus Coleus having multicolored decorative leaves and spikes of blue flowers
COLIC: acute abdominal pain (especially in infants)
COLIMA: an active volcano in southwestern Mexico
COLLAR: 1. take into custody. 2. seize by the neck or collar. 3. furnish with a collar. 4. a short ring fastened over a rod or shaft to limit, guide, or secure a machine part. 5. the stitching that forms the rim of a shoe or boot. 6. a band of leather or rope that is placed around an animal's neck as a harness or to identify it. 7. a figurative restraint. 
COLLET: 1. a cone-shaped chuck used for holding cylindrical pieces in a lathe. 2. a band or collar that holds an individual stone in a jewelry setting. 
COLLIE: a silky-coated sheepdog with a long ruff and long narrow head developed in Scotland
COLON: 1. the part of the large intestine between the cecum and the rectum; it extracts moisture from food residues before they are excreted. 2. the basic unit of money in El Salvador; equal to 100 centavos. 3. the basic unit of money in Costa Rica; equal to 100 centimos. 4. a port city at the Caribbean entrance to the Panama Canal. 5. a punctuation mark (:) used after a word introducing a series or an example or an explanation (or after the salutation of a business letter). 
COLONY: 1. a body of people who settle far from home but maintain ties with their homeland; inhabitants remain nationals of their home state but are not literally under the home state's system of government. 2. a group of organisms of the same type living or growing together. 3. one of the 13 British colonies that formed the original states of the United States. 4. a place where a group of people with the same interest or occupation are concentrated. 5. a geographical area politically controlled by a distant country. 6. (microbiology) a group of organisms grown from a single parent cell. 
COLOR: 1. having or capable of producing colors. 2. interest and variety and intensity. 3. modify or bias. 4. decorate with colors. 5. (physics) the characteristic of quarks that determines their role in the strong interaction. 6. the appearance of objects (or light sources) described in terms of a person's perception of their hue and lightness (or brightness) and saturation. 7. give a deceptive explanation or excuse for. 
COLORS: 1. a flag that shows its nationality. 2. a distinguishing emblem. 
COLT: 1. a young male horse under the age of four. 2. a kind of revolver. 
COLTER: a sharp steel wedge that precedes the plow and cuts vertically through the soil
COLUMN: 1. a line of units following one after another. 2. a vertical glass tube used in column chromatography; a mixture is poured in the top and washed through a stationary substance where components of the mixture are adsorbed selectively to form colored bands. 3. a vertical array of numbers or other information. 4. anything that approximates the shape of a column or tower. 5. an article giving opinions or perspectives. 6. a vertical cylindrical structure standing alone and not supporting anything (such as a monument). 7. (architecture) a tall vertical cylindrical structure standing upright and used to support a structure. 8. a page or text that is vertically divided. 9. any tubular or pillar-like supporting structure in the body. 
COMA: 1. a state of deep and often prolonged unconsciousness; usually the result of disease or injury. 2. (botany) a usually terminal tuft of bracts (as in the pineapple) or tuft of hairs (especially on certain seeds). 3. (astronomy) the luminous cloud of particles surrounding the frozen nucleus of a comet; forms as the comet approaches the sun and is warmed. 
COMATE: 1. bearing a coma; crowned with an assemblage of branches or leaves or bracts. 2. of certain seeds (such as cotton) having a tuft or tufts of hair. 
COMB: 1. straighten with a comb. 2. search thoroughly. 3. smoothen and neaten with or as with a comb. 4. ciliated comb-like swimming plate of a ctenophore. 5. the act of drawing a comb through hair. 
COMBAT: an engagement fought between two military forces
COMBED: (of hair) made tidy with a comb
COMBER: 1. a person who separates and straightens the fibers of cotton or wool. 2. a long curling sea wave. 3. a machine that separates and straightens the fibers of cotton or wool. 
COME: 1. move toward, travel toward something or somebody or approach something or somebody. 2. come to pass; arrive, as in due course. 3. reach or enter a state, relation, condition, use, or position. 4. to be the product or result. 5. be found or available; The furniture comes unassembled". 6. extend or reach. 7. exist or occur in a certain point in a series. 8. cover a certain distance. 9. happen as a result. 10. develop into. 11. be received. 12. experience orgasm. 13. have a certain priority. 
COMEDY: light and humorous drama with a happy ending
COMER: someone with a promising future
COMET: (astronomy) a relatively small extraterrestrial body consisting of a frozen mass that travels around the sun in a highly elliptical orbit
COMFIT: candy containing a fruit or nut
COMIC: of or relating to or characteristic of comedy
COMITY: a state or atmosphere of harmony or mutual civility and respect
COMMA: 1. a punctuation mark (,) used to indicate the separation of elements within the grammatical structure of a sentence. 2. anglewing butterfly with a comma-shaped mark on the underside of each hind wing. 
COMMIT: 1. cause to be admitted; of persons to an institution. 2. engage in or perform. 
COMMON: 1. belonging to or participated in by a community as a whole; public. 2. having no special distinction or quality; widely known or commonly encountered; average or ordinary or usual. 3. common to or shared by two or more parties. 4. commonly encountered. 5. being or characteristic of or appropriate to everyday language. 6. of or associated with the great masses of people. 7. to be expected; standard. 
COMPEL: 1. force somebody to do something. 2. necessitate or exact. 
COMPLY: act in accordance with someone's rules, commands, or wishes
COMTE: French philosopher remembered as the founder of positivism; he also established sociology as a systematic field of study
CON: in opposition to a proposition, opinion, etc.
CONCH: any of various edible tropical marine gastropods of the genus Strombus having a brightly-colored spiral shell with large outer lip
CONCHA: (anatomy) a structure that resembles a shell in shape
CONCUR: happen simultaneously
CONDOM: contraceptive device consisting of a sheath of thin rubber or latex that is worn over the penis during intercourse
CONDOR: the largest flying birds in the western hemisphere
CONE: 1. make cone-shaped. 2. a shape whose base is a circle and whose sides taper up to a point. 3. cone-shaped mass of ovule- or spore-bearing scales or bracts. 4. a visual receptor cell in the retina that is sensitive to bright light and to color. 
CONEY: black-spotted usually dusky-colored fish with reddish fins
CONFER: 1. have a conference in order to talk something over. 2. present. 
CONFIT: a piece of meat (especially a duck) cooked slowly in its own fat
CONGA: 1. dance the conga. 2. a Latin American dance of 3 steps and a kick by people in single file. 
CONGE: 1. (architecture) a concave molding. 2. formal permission to depart. 3. an abrupt and unceremonious dismissal. 
CONGEE: 1. depart after obtaining formal permission. 2. perform a ceremonious bow. 
CONGER: large dark-colored scaleless marine eel found in temperate and tropical coastal waters; some used for food
CONGO: 1. a republic in central Africa; achieved independence from Belgium in 1960. 2. a major African river (one of the world's longest); flows through Congo into the South Atlantic. 3. a republic in west-central Africa; achieved independence from France in 1960. 
CONGOU: black tea grown in China
CONIC: relating to or resembling a cone
CONIMA: a gum resin from the poison hemlock, Conium maculatum
CONIUM: small genus of highly toxic biennials: hemlock
CONYZA: common American weed or wildflower
CONK: 1. informal term for the nose. 2. hit, especially on the head. 
CONN: conduct or direct the steering of a ship or plane
CONOY: a member of an Algonquian people formerly living in Maryland between Chesapeake Bay and the Potomac river; allies of the Nanticoke people
CONRAD: English novelist (born in Poland) noted for sea stories and for his narrative technique (1857-1924)
CONSUL: a diplomat appointed by a government to protect its commercial interests and help its citizens in a foreign country
CONTO: 1 conto equals 1,000 escudos in Portugal
CONTRA: a member of the guerrilla force that opposed a left-wing government in Nicaragua
CONVEY: 1. make known; pass on, of information. 2. transfer to another. 3. transmit a title or property. 
CONVEX: curving or bulging outward
CONVOY: 1. escort in transit. 2. a collection of merchant ships with an escort of warships. 3. the act of escorting while in transit. 
COO: 1. speak softly or lovingly. 2. cry softly, as of pigeons. 
COOK: 1. prepare a hot meal. 2. prepare for eating by applying heat. 3. transform and make suitable for consumption by heating. 4. transform by heating. 
COOKED: having been prepared for eating by the application of heat
COOKER: a utensil for cooking
COOKIE: 1. any of various small flat sweet cakes (`biscuit' is the British term). 2. the cook on a ranch or at a camp. 3. a short line of text that a web site puts on your computer's hard drive when you access the web site. 
COOL: 1. neither warm nor very cold; giving relief from heat. 2. marked by calm self-control (especially in trying circumstances); unemotional. 3. (color) inducing the impression of coolness; used especially of greens and blues and violets. 4. psychologically cool and unenthusiastic; unfriendly or unresponsive or showing dislike. 5. (used of a number or sum) without exaggeration or qualification. 6. fashionable and attractive at the time; often skilled or socially adept. 
COOLER: 1. a refrigerator for cooling liquids. 2. an iced drink especially white wine and fruit juice. 3. a cell for violent prisoners. 
COOLIE: (ethnic slur) an offensive name for an unskilled Asian laborer
COOLLY: in a composed and unconcerned manner
COON: an eccentric or undignified rustic
COOPER: 1. make barrels and casks. 2. United States film actor noted for his portrayals of strong silent heroes (1901-1961). 3. United States novelist noted for his stories of American Indians and the frontier life (1789-1851). 4. a craftsman who makes or repairs wooden barrels or tubs. 
CO-OPT: 1. choose or elect as a fellow member or colleague. 2. neutralize or win over through assimilation into an established group. 3. appoint summarily or commandeer. 4. take or assume for one's own use. 
COOSA: river that rises in northwestern Georgia and flows southwest through eastern Alabama to join the Tallapoosa River near Montgomery and form the Alabama River
COOT: slate-black slow-flying birds somewhat resembling ducks
COOTER: large river turtle of the southern United States and northern Mexico
COPAL: a brittle aromatic resin used in varnishes
COPE: 1. a long cloak; worn by a priest or bishop on ceremonial occasions. 2. come to terms with. 
COPY: 1. a thing made to be similar or identical to another thing. 2. matter to be printed; exclusive of graphical materials. 3. make a replica of. 4. copy down as is. 
COPLEY: American painter who did portraits of Paul Revere and John Hancock before fleeing to England to avoid the American Revolution (1738-1815)
COPOUT: a failure to face some difficulty squarely
COPPER: 1. coat with a layer of copper. 2. a copper penny. 3. a reddish-brown color resembling the color of polished copper. 4. any of various small butterflies of the family Lycaenidae having coppery wings. 
COPRA: the dried meat of the coconut from which oil is extracted
COPT: 1. an Egyptian descended from the ancient Egyptians. 2. a member of the Coptic Church. 
COPTIC: of or relating to the Copts or their church or language or art
COPTIS: small genus of low perennial herbs having yellow rhizomes and white or yellow flowers
COPULA: an equating verb (such as `be' or `become') that links the subject with the complement of a sentence
CORAL: 1. of a strong pink to yellowish-pink color. 2. the hard stony skeleton of a Mediterranean coral that has a delicate red or pink color and is used for jewelry. 3. unfertilized lobster roe; reddens in cooking; used as garnish or to color sauces. 4. marine colonial polyp characterized by a calcareous skeleton; masses in a variety of shapes often forming reefs. 
CORBEL: furnish with a corbel
CORD: 1. stack in cords. 2. bind or tie with a cord. 3. a light insulated conductor for household use. 4. a cut pile fabric with vertical ribs; usually made of cotton. 
CORDAY: French revolutionary heroine (a Girondist) who assassinated Marat (1768-1793)
CORDED: of textiles; having parallel raised lines
CORDIA: tropical deciduous or evergreen trees or shrubs of the family Boraginaceae
CORDON: 1. a series of sentinels or of military posts enclosing or guarding some place or thing. 2. cord or ribbon worn as an insignia of honor or rank. 3. adornment consisting of an ornamental ribbon or cord. 
CORDS: cotton trousers made of corduroy cloth
CORE: 1. remove the core or center from. 2. the center of an object. 3. the central part of the Earth. 4. a cylindrical sample of soil or rock obtained with a hollow drill. 5. (computer science) a tiny ferrite toroid formerly used in a random access memory to store one bit of data; now superseded by semiconductor memories. 6. the chamber of a nuclear reactor containing the fissile material where the reaction takes place. 7. a bar of magnetic material (as soft iron) that passes through a coil and serves to increase the inductance of the coil. 
CORER: a device for removing the core from apples
CORGI: either of two Welsh breeds of long-bodied short-legged dogs with erect ears and a fox-like head
CORYMB: flat-topped or convex inflorescence in which the individual flower stalks grow upward from various points on the main stem to approximately the same height; outer flowers open first
CORIXA: type genus of the Corixidae: boat bugs
CORK: 1. close a bottle with a cork. 2. a port city in southern Ireland. 3. the plug in the mouth of a bottle (especially a wine bottle). 4. stuff with cork. 
CORKED: (of wine) tainted in flavor by a cork containing excess tannin
CORKER: 1. (dated slang) a remarkable or excellent thing or person. 2. a machine that is used to put corks in bottles. 
CORM: solid swollen underground bulb-shaped stem or stem base and serving as a reproductive structure
CORN: 1. feed (cattle) with corn. 2. preserve with salt. 3. ears of corn that can be prepared and served for human food. 4. a hard thickening of the skin (especially on the top or sides of the toes) caused by the pressure of ill-fitting shoes. 5. (Great Britain) any of various cereal plants (especially the dominant crop of the region--wheat in Great Britain or oats in Scotland and Ireland). 6. something sentimental or trite. 
CORNEA: the transparent dome-shaped anterior portion of the outer covering of the eye; it covers the iris and pupil and is continuous with the sclera
CORNED: (used especially of meat) cured in brine
CORNER: 1. gain control over. 2. force a person or an animal into a position from which he cannot escape. 3. turn a corner. 4. the intersection of two streets. 5. the point where three areas or surfaces meet or intersect. 6. a temporary monopoly on a kind of commercial trade. 7. a predicament from which a skillful or graceful escape is impossible. 8. a projecting part where two sides or edges meet. 9. a remote area. 10. (architecture) solid exterior angle of a building; especially one formed by a cornerstone. 
CORNET: a brass musical instrument with a brilliant tone; has a narrow tube and a flared bell and is played by means of valves
CORNU: (anatomy) any structure that resembles a horn in shape
CORNUS: a rosid dicot genus of the family Cornaceae including: dogwood; cornel: perennial chiefly deciduous shrubs or small trees of temperate regions of northern hemisphere
CORONA: 1. (botany) the trumpet-shaped or cup-shaped outgrowth of the corolla of a daffodil or narcissus flower. 2. one or more circles of light seen around a luminous object. 3. (anatomy) any structure that resembles a crown in shape. 4. a long cigar with blunt ends. 
COROT: French painter of Italian landscapes (1796-1875)
COROZO: any of several tropical American palms bearing corozo nuts
CORPS: 1. an army unit usually consisting of two or more divisions and their support. 2. a body of people associated together. 
CORPUS: 1. a collection of writings. 2. the main part of an organ or other bodily structure. 
CORRAL: 1. enclose in a corral. 2. arrange wagons so that they form a corral. 3. collect or gather. 
CORSE: 1. an island in the Mediterranean; with adjacent islets it constitutes a region of France. 2. a region of France on the island of Corsica; birthplace of Napoleon Bonaparte. 
CORSET: dress with a corset
CORTES: Spanish conquistador who defeated the Aztecs and conquered Mexico (1485-1547)
CORTEX: the tissue forming the outer layer of an organ or structure in plant or animal
CORVEE: unpaid labor (as for the maintenance of roads) required by a lord of his vassals in lieu of taxes
CORVUS: 1. a small quadrilateral constellation in the southern hemisphere near Virgo. 2. type genus of the Corvidae: crows and ravens. 
COS: lettuce with long dark-green leaves in a loosely packed elongated head
COSH: hit with a cosh, usually on the head
COSY: a padded cloth covering to keep a teapot warm
COSIGN: sign and endorse (another person's signature), as for a loan
COSINE: ratio of the adjacent side to the hypotenuse of a right-angled triangle
COSMIC: 1. of or from or pertaining to or characteristic of the cosmos or universe. 2. inconceivably extended in space or time. 
COSMOS: any of various mostly Mexican herbs of the genus Cosmos having radiate heads of variously colored flowers and pinnate leaves; popular fall-blooming annuals
COST: 1. be priced at. 2. require to lose, suffer, or sacrifice. 
COSTA: a riblike part of a plant or animal (such as a middle rib of a leaf or a thickened vein of an insect wing)
COSTAL: of or relating to or near a rib
COSTLY: having a high price
COSTS: pecuniary reimbursement to the winning party for the expenses of litigation
COT: a small bed that folds up for storage or transport
COTE: a small shelter for domestic animals (as sheep or pigeons)
COTTER: 1. a peasant farmer in the Scottish Highlands. 2. a medieval English villein. 3. fastener consisting of a wedge or pin inserted through a slot to hold two other pieces together. 
COTTON: 1. take a liking to. 2. fabric woven from cotton fibers. 3. erect bushy mallow plant or small tree bearing bolls containing seeds with many long hairy fibers. 4. thread made of cotton fibers. 
COTTUS: type genus of the Cottidae: sculpins
COTULA: cosmopolitan herbs especially southern hemisphere; many used as ground covers
COUCAL: Old World ground-living cuckoo having a long dagger-like hind claw
COUCH: 1. a flat coat of paint or varnish used by artists as a primer. 2. a narrow bed on which a patient lies during psychiatric or psychoanalytic treatment. 
COUE: French psychotherapist who claimed that if one imagined one was getting better, one would get better (1857-1926)
COUGAR: large American feline resembling a lion
COUGH: exhale abruptly, as when one has a chest cold or congestion
COUNT: 1. determine the number or amount of. 2. have weight; have import, carry weight. 3. a nobleman (in various countries) having rank equal to a British earl. 4. name or recite the numbers in ascending order. 5. put into a group. 6. include as if by counting. 7. have a certain value or carry a certain weight. 8. have faith or confidence in. 
COUNTY: 1. (United Kingdom) a region created by territorial division for the purpose of local government. 2. (United States) the largest administrative district within a state. 
COUP: a brilliant and notable success
COUPE: a car with two doors and front seats and a luggage compartment
COUPLE: 1. a pair who associate with one another. 2. link together. 3. a small indefinite number. 4. two items of the same kind. 5. (physics) something joined by two equal and opposite forces that act along parallel lines. 
COUPON: 1. a negotiable certificate that can be detached and redeemed as needed. 2. a test sample of some substance. 
COURSE: 1. move swiftly through or over. 2. a connected series of events or actions or developments. 3. hunt with hounds. 4. a mode of action. 5. part of a meal served at one time. 6. (construction) a layer of masonry. 7. facility consisting of a circumscribed area of land or water laid out for a sport. 
COURT: 1. an assembly (including one or more judges) to conduct judicial business. 2. a room in which a lawcourt sits. 3. engage in social activities leading to marriage. 4. a specially marked horizontal area within which a game is played. 5. Australian woman tennis player who won many major championships (born in 1947). 6. the family and retinue of a sovereign or prince. 7. a tribunal that is presided over by a magistrate or by one or more judges who administer justice according to the laws. 8. the residence of a sovereign or nobleman. 9. an area wholly or partly surrounded by walls or buildings. 10. respectful deference. 
COUSIN: the child of your aunt or uncle
COUTH: (used facetiously) refined
COVE: 1. a small inlet. 2. small or narrow cave in the side of a cliff or mountain. 
COVEY: 1. a small collection of people. 2. a small flock of grouse or partridge. 
COVEN: an assembly of witches; usually 13 witches
COVER: 1. span an interval of distance, space or time. 2. fire that makes it difficult for the enemy to fire on your own individuals or formations. 3. hold within range of an aimed firearm. 4. to take an action to protect against future problems. 5. provide with a covering or cause to be covered. 6. form a cover over. 7. provide for. 8. act on verbally or in some form of artistic expression. 9. hide from view or knowledge. 10. protect or defend (a position in a game). 11. maintain a check on; especially by patrolling. 12. protect by insurance. 13. make up for shortcomings or a feeling of inferiority by exaggerating good qualities. 14. invest with a large or excessive amount of something. 15. help out by taking someone's place and temporarily assuming his responsibilities. 16. be sufficient to meet, defray, or offset the charge or cost of. 17. spread over a surface to conceal or protect. 18. play a higher card than the one previously played. 19. be responsible for guarding an opponent in a game. 20. clothe, as if for protection from the elements. 
COVERT: 1. secret or hidden; not openly practiced or engaged in or shown or avowed. 2. (of a wife) being under the protection of her husband. 
COVET: wish, long, or crave for (something, especially the property of another person)
COW: 1. female of domestic cattle: "`moo-cow' is a child's term". 2. mature female of mammals of which the male is called `bull'. 3. a large unpleasant woman. 
COWAGE: 1. pods of the cowage plant or the stinging hairs covering them; used as a vermifuge when mixed with e.g. honey. 2. the annual woody vine of Asia having long clusters of purplish flowers and densely hairy pods; cultivated in southern United States for green manure and grazing. 
COWARD: 1. a person who shows fear or timidity. 2. English dramatist and actor and composer noted for his witty and sophisticated comedies (1899-1973). 
COWBOY: 1. a hired hand who tends cattle and performs other duties on horseback. 2. a performer who gives exhibitions of riding and roping and bulldogging. 3. someone who is reckless or irresponsible (especially in driving vehicles). 
COWL: 1. a loose hood or hooded robe (as worn by a monk). 2. cover with or as with a cowl. 
COWLED: having the head enclosed in a cowl or hood
COWPEA: 1. fruit or seed of the cowpea plant. 2. sprawling Old World annual cultivated especially in southern United States for food and forage and green manure. 
COWPER: 1. English surgeon who discovered Cowper's gland (1666-1709). 2. English poet who wrote hymns and poetry about nature (1731-1800). 
COWPOX: a viral disease of cattle causing a mild skin disease affecting the udder; formerly used to inoculate humans against smallpox
COWRIE: any of numerous tropical marine gastropods of the genus Cypraea having highly polished usually brightly marked shells
COX: act as the coxswain, in a boat race
COZEN: 1. act with artful deceit. 2. cheat or trick. 
COZY: 1. enjoying or affording comforting warmth and shelter especially in a small space. 2. having or fostering a warm or friendly and informal atmosphere. 3. suggesting connivance. 
COZILY: in a cozy manner
CRAB: 1. direct (an aircraft) into a crosswind. 2. scurry sideways like a crab. 3. the edible flesh of any of various crabs. 4. a stroke of the oar that either misses the water or digs too deeply. 5. fish for crab. 
CRACK: 1. become fractured; break or crack on the surface only. 2. hit forcefully; deal a hard blow, making a cracking noise. 3. a blemish resulting from a break without complete separation of the parts. 4. gain unauthorized access computers with malicious intentions. 5. a usually brief attempt. 6. make a very sharp explosive sound. 7. break partially but keep its integrity. 8. tell spontaneously. 9. cause to become cracked. 10. reduce (petroleum) to a simpler compound by cracking. 11. break into simpler molecules by means of heat. 
CRACOW: an industrial city in southern Poland on the Vistula
CRADLE: 1. hold gently and carefully. 2. hold or place in or as if in a cradle. 3. bring up from infancy. 4. cut grain with a cradle scythe. 5. wash in a cradle. 6. run with the stick. 
CRAFT: 1. a vehicle designed for navigation in or on water or air or through outer space. 2. people who perform a particular kind of skilled work. 3. skill in an occupation or trade. 4. shrewdness as demonstrated by being skilled in deception. 5. make by hand and with much skill. 
CRAFTY: marked by skill in deception
CRAG: a steep rugged rock or cliff
CRAYON: write, draw, or trace with a crayon
CRAKE: any of several short-billed Old World rails
CRAM: 1. put something somewhere so that the space is completely filled. 2. study intensively, as before an exam. 3. prepare (students) hastily for an impending exam. 
CRAMBE: annual or perennial herbs with large leaves that resemble the leaves of cabbages
CRAMP: 1. a clamp for holding pieces of wood together while they are glued. 2. affect with or as if with a cramp. 3. secure with a cramp. 4. suffer from sudden painful contraction of a muscle. 
CRAN: a capacity unit used for measuring fresh herring
CRANE: 1. stretch (the neck) so as to see better. 2. United States poet (1899-1932). 3. lifts and moves heavy objects; lifting tackle is suspended from a pivoted boom that rotates around a vertical axis. 4. large long-necked wading bird of marshes and plains in many parts of the world. 
CRANK: 1. fasten with a crank. 2. start by cranking. 3. rotate with a crank. 4. bend into the shape of a crank. 5. (used of boats) inclined to heel over easily under sail. 
CRANKY: easily irritated or annoyed
CRANNY: a small opening or crevice (especially in a rock face or wall)
CRAP: obscene terms for feces
CRAPE: cover or drape with crape
CRAPS: 1. expressions used when when two dice are thrown and both come up showing one spot. 2. a gambling game played with two dice; a first throw of 7 or 11 wins and a first throw of 2, 3, or 12 loses and a first throw of any other number must be repeated to win before a 7 is thrown, which loses the bet and the dice. 
CRASH: 1. move with, or as if with, a crashing noise. 2. undergo damage or destruction on impact. 3. move violently as through a barrier. 4. break violently or noisily; smash; . 5. fall or come down violently. 6. occupy, usually uninvited. 7. make a sudden loud sound. 8. cause to crash. 9. hurl or thrust violently. 10. undergo a sudden and severe downturn. 11. stop operating. 
CRASS: (of persons) so unrefined as to be lacking in discrimination and sensibility
CRATE: 1. put into a crate; as for protection. 2. the quantity contained in a crate. 
CRATER: 1. a faint constellation in the southern hemisphere near Hydra and Corvus. 2. a bowl-shaped depression formed by the impact of a meteorite or bomb. 
CRATON: the part of a continent that is stable and forms the central mass of the continent; typically Precambrian
CRAVAT: neckwear worn in a slipknot with long ends overlapping vertically in front
CRAVE: 1. have a craving, appetite, or great desire for. 2. plead or ask for earnestly. 
CRAVED: wanted intensely
CRAVEN: lacking even the rudiments of courage; abjectly fearful
CRAW: a pouch in many birds and some lower animals that resembles a stomach for storage and preliminary maceration of food
CRAWL: 1. move slowly; in the case of people or animals with the body near the ground. 2. feel as if crawling with insects. 3. be full of. 4. swim by doing the crawl; they often don't know how to crawl". 
CRAX: type genus of the Cracidae: curassows
CRAZE: 1. develop a fine network of cracks. 2. a fine crack in a glaze or other surface. 
CRAZED: driven insane
CRAZY: 1. someone deranged and possibly dangerous. 2. foolish; totally unsound. 3. possessed by inordinate excitement. 4. bizarre or fantastic. 5. intensely enthusiastic about or preoccupied with. 
CREAK: a squeaking sound
CREAKY: 1. worn and broken down by hard use. 2. having a rasping or grating sound. 
CREAM: 1. make creamy by beating. 2. beat thoroughly and conclusively in a competition or fight. 3. put on cream, as on one's face or body. 4. add cream to one's coffee, for example. 
CREAMY: 1. of the color of cream. 2. thick like cream. 
CREATE: 1. bring into existence. 2. pursue a creative activity; be engaged in a creative activity. 3. invest with a new title, office, or rank. 4. create by artistic means. 
CRECHE: 1. a hospital where foundlings (infant children of unknown parents) are taken in and cared for. 2. a representation of Christ's nativity in the stable at Bethlehem. 
CRECY: the first decisive battle of the Hundred Years' War; in 1346 the English under Edward III defeated the French under Philip of Valois
CREDIT: 1. money available for a client to borrow. 2. accounting: enter as credit. 3. have trust in; trust in the truth or veracity of. 4. arrangement for deferred payment for goods and services. 5. recognition by a college or university that a course of studies has been successfully completed; typically measured in semester hours. 6. an entry on a list of persons who contributed to a film or written work. 7. give someone credit for something. 
CREE: 1. a member of an Algonquian people living in central Canada. 2. the Algonquian language spoken by the Cree. 
CREED: any system of principles or beliefs
CREEK: any member of the Creek Confederacy (especially the Muskogee) formerly living in Georgia and Alabama but now chiefly in Oklahoma
CREEL: a wicker basket used by anglers to hold fish
CREEP: 1. someone unpleasantly strange or eccentric. 2. a slow longitudinal movement or deformation. 3. grow or spread, often in such a way as to cover (a surface). 
CREEPY: 1. annoying and unpleasant. 2. causing a sensation as of things crawling on your skin. 
CREEPS: 1. a disease of cattle and sheep attributed to a dietary deficiency; characterized by anemia and softening of the bones and a slow stiff gait. 2. a feeling of fear and revulsion. 
CRENEL: 1. a notch or open space between two merlons in a crenelated battlement. 2. supply with battlements. 
CREOLE: 1. of or relating to a language that arises from contact between two other languages and has features of both. 2. of or relating to or characteristic of native-born persons of French descent in Louisiana. 3. a mother tongue that originates from contact between two languages. 
CREON: (Greek mythology) the brother of Jocasta and uncle of Antigone who became king of Thebes after the fall of Oedipus
CREPE: 1. paper with a crinkled texture; usually colored and used for decorations. 2. a soft thin light fabric with a crinkled surface. 
CREPIS: hawk's-beard; cosmopolitan in northern hemisphere
CRESOL: any of three poisonous colorless isomeric phenols; derived from coal or wood tar; used as a disinfectant
CRESS: 1. any of various plants of the family Cruciferae with edible leaves that have a pungent taste. 2. pungent leaves of any of numerous cruciferous herbs. 
CREST: 1. the top line of a hill, mountain, or wave. 2. (heraldry) in medieval times, an emblem used to decorate a helmet. 3. a showy growth of e.g. feathers or skin on the head of a bird or other animal. 4. reach a high point. 
CRETAN: a native or inhabitant of Crete
CRETE: the largest Greek island in the Mediterranean; site of the Minoan civilization that reached its peak in 1600 BC
CREW: 1. serve as a crew member on. 2. the team of men manning a racing shell. 
CREX: corncrakes
CRY: 1. a loud utterance; often in protest or opposition. 2. shed tears because of sadness, rage, or pain. 3. proclaim or announce in public. 4. demand immediate action. 5. utter a characteristic sound. 6. bring into a particular state by crying. 
CRIB: 1. use a crib, as in an exam. 2. line with beams or planks. 3. the cards discarded by players at cribbage. 4. take unauthorized (intellectual material). 
CRICK: 1. twist (a body part) into a strained position. 2. English biochemist who (with Watson in 1953) helped discover the helical structure of DNA (1916-2004). 
CRIER: a peddler who shouts to advertise the goods he sells
CRYING: 1. the process of shedding tears (usually accompanied by sobs or other inarticulate sounds). 2. conspicuously and outrageously bad or reprehensible. 
CRIME: 1. (criminal law) an act punishable by law; usually considered an evil act. 2. an evil act not necessarily punishable by law. 
CRIMEA: a Ukrainian peninsula between the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov
CRIMP: 1. curl tightly. 2. a lock of hair that has been artificially waved or curled. 3. make ridges into by pinching together. 
CRYPT: a cellar or vault or underground burial chamber (especially beneath a church)
CRISIS: 1. an unstable situation of extreme danger or difficulty. 2. a crucial stage or turning point in the course of something. 
CRISP: 1. (of something seen or heard) clearly defined. 2. tender and brittle. 3. pleasantly cold and invigorating. 4. pleasingly firm and fresh. 5. (of hair) in small tight curls. 6. brief and to the point; effectively cut short; `yes'". 
CRITH: the weight of a liter of hydrogen (at 0 centigrade and 760 millimeters pressure)
CRITIC: 1. a person who is professionally engaged in the analysis and interpretation of works of art. 2. anyone who expresses a reasoned judgment of something. 3. someone who frequently finds fault or makes harsh and unfair judgments. 
CRIUS: (Greek mythology) one of the Titans
CROAK: 1. a harsh hoarse utterance (as of a frog). 2. utter a hoarse sound, like a raven. 
CROAKY: like the sounds of frogs and crows
CROCK: 1. soil with or as with crock. 2. an earthen jar (made of baked clay). 3. release color when rubbed, of badly dyed fabric. 
CROCUS: any of numerous low-growing plants of the genus Crocus having slender grasslike leaves and white or yellow or purple flowers; native chiefly to the Mediterranean region but widely cultivated
CROFT: a small farm worked by a crofter
CRONUS: (Greek mythology) the supreme god until Zeus dethroned him; son of Uranus and Gaea in ancient Greek mythology; identified with Roman Saturn
CROOK: 1. a long staff with one end being hook shaped. 2. bend or cause to bend. 
CROON: sing softly
CROP: 1. cut short. 2. a cultivated plant that is grown commercially on a large scale. 3. yield crops. 4. let feed in a field or pasture or meadow. 5. feed as in a meadow or pasture. 
CRORE: the number that is represented as a one followed by 7 zeros; ten million
CROSS: 1. extending or lying across; in a crosswise direction; at right angles to the long axis. 2. a representation of the structure on which Jesus was crucified; used as an emblem of Christianity or in heraldry. 3. fold so as to resemble a cross. 4. to cover or extend over an area or time period. 5. meet and pass. 6. trace a line through or across. 
CROSSE: a long racket with a triangular frame; used in playing lacrosse
CROTCH: the angle formed by the inner sides of the legs where they join the human trunk
CROTON: 1. grown in many varieties for their brightly colored foliage; widely cultivated as a houseplant. 2. tropical Asiatic shrub; source of croton oil. 
CROUCH: bend one's back forward from the waist on down
CROUP: a disease of infants and young children; harsh coughing and hoarseness and fever and difficult breathing
CROUPY: resembling or arising from or indicating croup
CROW: 1. black birds having a raucous call. 2. express pleasure verbally. 3. utter shrill sounds. 4. a Siouan language spoken by the Crow. 
CROWD: 1. a large number of things or people considered together. 2. fill or occupy to the point of overflowing. 3. to gather together in large numbers. 
CROWN: 1. invest with regal power; enthrone. 2. be the culminating event. 3. form the topmost part of. 4. put an enamel cover on. 5. the part of a hat (the vertex) that covers the crown of the head. 6. an English coin worth 5 shillings. 7. the upper branches and leaves of a tree or other plant. 8. (dentistry) dental appliance consisting of an artificial crown for a broken or decayed tooth. 9. the center of a cambered road. 
CRUD: 1. heavy wet snow that is unsuitable for skiing. 2. an ill-defined bodily ailment. 
CRUDDY: characterized by obscenity
CRUDE: 1. not carefully or expertly made. 2. conspicuously and tastelessly indecent. 3. belonging to an early stage of technical development; characterized by simplicity and (often) crudeness. 4. not processed or subjected to analysis. 
CRUET: bottle that holds wine or oil or vinegar for the table
CRUISE: 1. drive around aimlessly but ostentatiously and at leisure. 2. travel at a moderate speed. 3. look for a sexual partner in a public place. 4. sail or travel about for pleasure, relaxation, or sightseeing. 
CRUMB: 1. coat with bread crumbs. 2. remove crumbs from. 3. break into crumbs. 
CRUMP: 1. make a noise typical of an engine lacking lubricants. 2. bombard with heavy shells. 3. explode heavily or with a loud dull noise. 
CRUNCH: 1. make a crushing noise. 2. press or grind with a crushing noise. 3. chew noisily. 
CRURAL: of or relating the leg from the knee to the foot
CRUS: the leg from the knee to foot
CRUSE: small jar; holds liquid (oil or water)
CRUSH: 1. a dense crowd of people. 2. break into small pieces. 3. humiliate or depress completely. 4. become injured, broken, or distorted by pressure. 
CRUST: 1. form a crust or form into a crust. 2. a hard outer layer that covers something. 3. the trait of being rude and impertinent; inclined to take liberties. 
CRUSTY: brusque and surly and forbidding
CRUTCH: 1. a wooden or metal staff that fits under the armpit and reaches to the ground; used by disabled person while walking. 2. anything that serves as an expedient. 
CRUX: the most important point
CTENE: a locomotor organ consisting of a row of strong cilia whose bases are fused
CUB: 1. give birth to cubs. 2. a male child (a familiar term of address to a boy). 3. the young of certain carnivorous mammals such as the bear or wolf or lion. 
CUBA: 1. a communist state in the Caribbean on the island of Cuba. 2. the largest island in the West Indies. 
CUBAN: of or relating to or characteristic of Cuba or the people of Cuba
CUBBY: a small secluded room
CUBE: 1. raise to the third power. 2. the product of three equal terms. 3. any of several tropical American woody plants of the genus Lonchocarpus whose roots are used locally as a fish poison and commercially as a source of rotenone. 4. a block in the (approximate) shape of a cube. 5. cut into cubes. 
CUBEB: 1. spicy fruit of the cubeb vine; when dried and crushed is used medicinally or in perfumery and sometimes smoked in cigarettes. 2. tropical southeast Asian shrubby vine bearing spicy berrylike fruits. 3. a cigarette containing cubeb. 
CUBIC: having three dimensions
CUBISM: an artistic movement in France beginning in 1907 that featured surfaces of geometrical planes
CUBIST: relating to or characteristic of cubism
CUBIT: an ancient unit of length based on the length of the forearm
CUBOID: a rectangular parallelepiped
CUCKOO: 1. any of numerous European and North American birds having pointed wings and a long tail. 2. repeat monotonously, like a cuckoo repeats his call. 
CUD: food of a ruminant regurgitated to be chewed again
CUDDY: the galley or pantry of a small ship
CUDDLE: 1. move or arrange oneself in a comfortable and cozy position. 2. hold (a person or thing) close, as for affection, comfort, or warmth. 
CUDGEL: strike with a cudgel
CUE: 1. an actor's line that immediately precedes and serves as a reminder for some action or speech. 2. sports implement consisting of a tapering rod used to strike a cue ball in pool or billiards. 
CUFF: hit with the hand
CUISSE: armor plate that protects the thigh
CUL: a passage with access only at one end
CULEX: type genus of the Culicidae: widespread genus of mosquitoes distinguished by holding the body parallel to the resting surface
CULL: remove something that has been rejected
CULLIS: a gutter in a roof
CULM: stem of plants of the Gramineae
CULT: 1. followers of an exclusive system of religious beliefs and practices. 2. followers of an unorthodox, extremist, or false religion or sect who often live outside of conventional society under the direction of a charismatic leader. 3. a religion or sect that is generally considered to be unorthodox, extremist, or false. 4. a system of religious beliefs and rituals. 
CUMANA: a port city in northeastern Venezuela on the Caribbean Sea; founded in 1523, it is the oldest European settlement in South America
CUMIN: 1. dwarf Mediterranean annual long cultivated for its aromatic seeds. 2. aromatic seeds of the cumin herb of the carrot family. 
CUNAXA: battle in 401 BC when the Artaxerxes II defeated his younger brother who tried to usurp the throne
CUNNER: common in north Atlantic coastal waters of the United States
CUNT: 1. a person (usually but not necessarily a woman) who is thoroughly disliked. 2. obscene terms for female genitals. 
CUON: Asiatic wild dog
CUP: 1. form into the shape of a cup. 2. put into a cup. 3. treat by applying evacuated cups to the patient's skin. 4. a United States liquid unit equal to 8 fluid ounces. 5. cup-shaped plant organ. 6. a punch served in a pitcher instead of a punch bowl. 7. the hole (or metal container in the hole) on a golf green. 8. a large metal vessel with two handles that is awarded as a trophy to the winner of a competition. 
CUPID: 1. (Roman mythology) god of love; counterpart of Greek Eros. 2. a symbol for love in the form of a cherubic naked boy with wings and a bow and arrow. 
CUPOLA: 1. a vertical cylindrical furnace for melting iron for casting. 2. a roof in the form of a dome. 
CUPPA: a cup of tea
CUPRIC: of or containing divalent copper
CUPULE: 1. cup-shaped structure of hardened bracts at the base of an acorn. 2. a sucker on the feet of certain flies. 
CUR: 1. an inferior dog or one of mixed breed. 2. a cowardly and despicable person. 
CURACY: the position of a curate
CURATE: a person authorized to conduct religious worship
CURB: 1. an edge between a sidewalk and a roadway consisting of a line of curbstones (usually forming part of a gutter). 2. a horse's bit with an attached chain or strap to check the horse. 3. keep to the curb. 
CURD: 1. a coagulated liquid resembling milk curd. 2. coagulated milk; used to make cheese. 
CURDLE: 1. turn into curds. 2. go bad or sour. 3. turn from a liquid to a solid mass. 
CURE: 1. prepare by drying, salting, or chemical processing in order to preserve. 2. make (substances) hard and improve their usability. 3. be or become preserved. 
CURED: 1. freed from illness or injury. 2. (used of rubber) treated by a chemical or physical process to improve its properties (hardness and strength and odor and elasticity). 3. (used of concrete or mortar) kept moist to assist the hardening. 4. (used of hay e.g.) allowed to dry. 
CURFEW: 1. the time that the curfew signal is sounded. 2. a signal (usually a bell) announcing the start of curfew restrictions. 3. an order that after a specific time certain activities (as being outside on the streets) are prohibited. 
CURIA: (Roman Catholic Church) the central administration governing the Roman Catholic Church
CURIE: 1. a unit of radioactivity equal to the amount of a radioactive isotope that decays at the rate of 37,000,000,000 disintegrations per second. 2. French physicist; husband of Marie Curie (1859-1906). 3. French chemist (born in Poland) who won two Nobel prizes; one (with her husband and Henri Becquerel) for research on radioactivity and another for her discovery of radium and polonium (1867-1934). 
CURIO: something unusual -- perhaps worthy of collecting
CURIUM: a radioactive transuranic metallic element; produced by bombarding plutonium with helium nuclei
CURL: 1. American chemist who with Richard Smalley and Harold Kroto discovered fullerenes and opened a new branch of chemistry (born in 1933). 2. form a curl, curve, or kink. 3. twist or roll into coils or ringlets. 4. play the Scottish game of curling. 
CURLED: of hair having curls
CURLER: a mechanical device consisting of a cylindrical tube around which the hair is wound to curl it
CURLEW: large migratory shorebirds of the sandpiper family; closely related to woodcocks but having a down-curved bill
CURLY: (of hair) having curls or waves
CURRY: 1. season with a mixture of spices; typical of Indian cooking. 2. treat by incorporating fat. 
CURSE: 1. utter obscenities or profanities. 2. a severe affliction. 3. heap obscenities upon. 4. wish harm upon; invoke evil upon. 
CURSED: 1. deserving a curse; sometimes used as an intensifier. 2. in danger of the eternal punishment of Hell. 
CURSOR: (computer science) indicator consisting of a movable spot of light (an icon) on a visual display; moving it allows the user to point to commands or screen positions
CURTAL: (obsolete) cut short
CURTIS: English botanical writer and publisher (1746-1799)
CURTLY: in a curt, abrupt and discourteous manner
CURTSY: 1. bend the knees in a gesture of respectful greeting. 2. make a curtsy; usually done only by girls and women; as a sign of respect. 
CURVE: 1. the trace of a point whose direction of motion changes. 2. a line on a graph representing data. 3. a pitch of a baseball that is thrown with spin so that its path curves as it approaches the batter. 
CURVED: having or marked by a curve or smoothly rounded bend
CURVET: perform a leap where both hind legs come off the ground, of a horse
CURVY: having curves
CUSCUS: woolly-haired monkey-like arboreal marsupial of New Guinea and northern Australia
CUSHAW: 1. plant bearing squash having globose to ovoid fruit with variously striped grey and green and white warty rinds. 2. globose or ovoid squash with striped grey and green warty rind. 
CUSHY: not burdensome or demanding; borne or done easily and without hardship
CUSK: 1. the lean flesh of a cod-like fish of North Atlantic waters. 2. large edible marine fish of northern coastal waters; related to cod. 
CUSP: 1. point formed by two intersecting arcs (as from the intrados of a Gothic arch). 2. a thin triangular flap of a heart valve. 3. small elevation on the grinding surface of a tooth. 
CUSSED: stubbornly persistent in wrongdoing
CUSTOM: 1. accepted or habitual practice. 2. a specific practice of long standing. 3. habitual patronage. 
CUT: 1. separated into parts or laid open or penetrated with a sharp edge or instrument. 2. fashioned or shaped by cutting. 3. with parts removed. 4. make an incision or separation. 5. discharge from a group. 6. (of pages of a book) having the folds of the leaves trimmed or slit. 7. (used of rates or prices) reduced usually sharply. 8. the style in which a garment is cut. 9. intentionally fail to attend. 10. move (one's fist). 11. pass directly and often in haste. 12. pass through or across. 13. make an abrupt change of image or sound. 14. stop filming. 15. make a recording of. 16. record a performance on (a medium). 17. (of a male animal) having the testicles removed. 18. give the appearance or impression of. 19. create by duplicating data. 20. form or shape by cutting or incising. 21. perform or carry out. 22. function as a cutting instrument. 23. allow incision or separation. 24. divide a deck of cards at random into two parts to make selection difficult. 25. reap or harvest. 26. fell by sawing; hew. 27. penetrate injuriously. 28. shorten as if by severing the edges or ends of. 29. weed out unwanted or unnecessary things. 30. dissolve by breaking down the fat of. 31. have a reducing effect. 32. cease, stop. 33. have grow through the gums. 34. grow through the gums. 35. mixed with water. 
CUTCH: tannin extract derived from any of several mangrove barks of Pacific areas
CUTE: obviously contrived to charm
CUTIN: (biochemistry) a waxy transparent material that occurs in the cuticle of plants and consists of highly polymerized esters of fatty acids
CUT-IN: 1. (broadcasting) a local announcement inserted into a network program. 2. (film) a still picture that is introduced and that interrupts the action of a film. 
CUTLAS: a short heavy curved sword with one edge; formerly used by sailors
CUTLER: a dealer in cutlery
CUTLET: thin slice of meat (especially veal) usually fried or broiled
CUTOFF: 1. a designated limit beyond which something cannot function or must be terminated. 2. a device that terminates the flow in a pipe. 
CUTOUT: 1. a switch that interrupts an electric circuit in the event of an overload. 2. a photograph from which the background has been cut away. 3. a part that is cut out or is intended to be cut out. 
CUTTER: 1. someone who carves the meat. 2. someone whose work is cutting (as e.g. cutting cloth for garments). 3. a sailing vessel with a single mast set further back than the mast of a sloop. 4. a cutting implement; a tool for cutting. 
CUVIER: French naturalist known as the father of comparative anatomy (1769-1832)
CUZCO: a town in the Andes in southern Peru; formerly the capital of the Inca empire
CZAR: 1. a male monarch or emperor (especially of Russia prior to 1917). 2. a person having great power. 
CZECH: 1. of or relating to Czechoslovakia or its people or their language. 2. the Slavic language of Czechs. 
CZERNY: Austrian virtuoso pianist and composer of many works for the piano; studied with Beethoven and was a teacher of Liszt (1791-1857)
DAB: 1. hit lightly. 2. apply (usually a liquid) to a surface. 
DABBLE: 1. dip a foot or hand briefly into a liquid. 2. play in or as if in water, as of small children. 3. work with in an amateurish manner. 4. bob forward and under so as to feed off the bottom of a body of water. 
DACE: small European freshwater fish with a slender bluish-green body
DACELO: Australasian kingfishers
DACHA: Russian country house
DACHAU: a concentration camp for Jews created by the Nazis near Munich in southern Germany
DACITE: a grey volcanic rock containing plagioclase and quartz and other crystalline minerals
DACOIT: a member of an armed gang of robbers
DACRON: a kind of polyester fabric
DACTYL: a metrical unit with stressed-unstressed-unstressed syllables
DAD: an informal term for a father; probably derived from baby talk
DADA: a nihilistic art movement (especially in painting) that flourished in Europe early in the 20th century; based on irrationality and negation of the accepted laws of beauty
DADO: 1. cut a dado into or fit into a dado. 2. a rectangular groove cut into a board so that another piece can fit into it. 3. provide with a dado. 
DAEDAL: complex and ingenious in design or function
DAEMON: a person who is part mortal and part god
DAFTLY: in a mildly insane manner
DAGAME: source of a tough elastic wood
DAGAN: god of agriculture and earth; counterpart of Phoenician Dagon
DAGDA: chief Celtic god of the Tuatha De Danann; father of Angus Og and Brigit
DAGGA: relatively nontoxic South African herb smoked like tobacco
DAGGER: 1. a short knife with a pointed blade used for piercing or stabbing. 2. a character used in printing to indicate a cross reference or footnote. 
DAGON: god of agriculture and the earth; national god of Philistines
DAHLIA: any of several plants of or developed from the species Dahlia pinnata having tuberous roots and showy rayed variously colored flower heads; native to the mountains of Mexico and Central America and Colombia
DAY: 1. time for Earth to make a complete rotation on its axis. 2. some point or period in time. 3. a day assigned to a particular purpose or observance. 4. the time after sunrise and before sunset while it is light outside. 5. the recurring hours when you are not sleeping (especially those when you are working). 6. an era of existence or influence. 7. the period of time taken by a particular planet (e.g. Mars) to make a complete rotation on its axis. 8. a period of opportunity. 9. United States writer best known for his autobiographical works (1874-1935). 
DAYBED: an armless couch; a seat by day and a bed by night
DAYBOY: a day boarder who is a boy
DAILY: every day; without missing a day
DAINTY: 1. affectedly dainty or refined. 2. delicately beautiful. 3. especially pleasing to the taste; . 4. excessively fastidious and easily disgusted. 
DAIRY: a farm where dairy products are produced
DAIS: a platform raised above the surrounding level to give prominence to the person on it
DAYS: the time during which someone's life continues
DAISY: any of numerous composite plants having flower heads with well-developed ray flowers usually arranged in a single whorl
DAYTON: a city in southwest Ohio; manufacturing center
DAKAR: the capital and chief port and largest city of Senegal
DAKOTA: 1. a member of the Siouan people of the northern Mississippi valley; commonly called the Sioux. 2. the area of the states of North Dakota and South Dakota. 3. the Siouan language spoken by the Dakota. 
DALASI: the basic unit of money in Gambia
DALE: an open river valley (in a hilly area)
DALEA: indigo bush
DALLAS: a large commercial and industrial city in northeastern Texas located in the heart of the northern Texas oil fields
DALLY: 1. behave carelessly or indifferently. 2. waste time. 3. consider not very seriously. 
DALTON: English chemist and physicist who formulated atomic theory and the law of partial pressures; gave the first description of red-green color blindness (1766-1844)
DAM: 1. obstruct with, or as if with, a dam. 2. female parent of an animal especially domestic livestock. 
DAMA: fallow deer
DAMAGE: 1. inflict damage upon. 2. suffer or be susceptible to damage. 3. the act of damaging something or someone. 
DAMASK: 1. having a woven pattern. 2. a fabric of linen or cotton or silk or wool with a reversible pattern woven into it. 
DAME: 1. informal terms for a (young) woman. 2. a woman of refinement. 
DAMMAR: any of various hard resins from trees of the family Dipterocarpaceae and of the genus Agathis; especially the amboyna pine
DAMN: used as expletives
DAMNED: in a damnable manner
DAMON: the friend of Phintias who pledged his life that Phintias would return (4th century BC)
DAMP: 1. slightly wet. 2. restrain or discourage. 
DAMPEN: 1. reduce the amplitude (of oscillations or waves). 2. make vague or obscure or make (an image) less visible. 3. check; keep in check (a fire). 4. lessen in force or effect. 
DAMPER: 1. a movable iron plate that regulates the draft in a stove or chimney or furnace. 2. a device that decreases the amplitude of electronic, mechanical, acoustical, or aerodynamic oscillations. 3. a depressing restraint. 
DAMPLY: in a damp manner
DAMSEL: a young unmarried woman
DAMSON: dark purple plum of the damson tree
DANAID: large tropical butterfly with degenerate forelegs and an unpleasant taste
DANAUS: type genus of the Danaidae: monarch butterflies
DANCE: 1. move in a graceful and rhythmical way. 2. move in a pattern; usually to musical accompaniment; do or perform a dance. 3. a party for social dancing. 4. skip, leap, or move up and down or sideways. 
DANCER: 1. a performer who dances professionally. 2. a person who participates in a social gathering arranged for dancing (as a ball). 
DANDER: 1. small scales from animal skins or hair or bird feathers that can cause allergic reactions in some people. 2. a feeling of anger and animosity. 
DANDY: a man who is much concerned with his dress and appearance
DANDLE: 1. move (a baby) up and down in one's arms or on one's knees. 2. pet. 
DANE: a native or inhabitant of Denmark
DANGER: 1. the condition of being susceptible to harm or injury. 2. a cause of pain or injury or loss. 3. a dangerous place. 
DANGLE: 1. hang freely. 2. cause to dangle or hang freely. 
DANIEL: 1. (Old Testament) a youth who was taken into the court of Nebuchadnezzar and given divine protection when thrown into a den of lions (6th century BC). 2. a wise and upright judge. 3. an Old Testament book that tells of the apocalyptic visions and the experiences of Daniel in the court of Nebuchadnezzar. 
DANISH: 1. of or relating to or characteristic of Denmark or the Danes or their language. 2. light sweet yeast-raised roll usually filled with fruits or cheese. 
DANTE: an Italian poet famous for writing the Divine Comedy that describes a journey through Hell and purgatory and paradise guided by Virgil and his idealized Beatrice (1265-1321)
DANTON: French revolutionary leader who stormed the Paris bastille and who supported the execution of Louis XVI but was guillotined by Robespierre for his opposition to the Reign of Terror (1759-1794)
DANUBE: the 2nd longest European river (after the Volga); flows from southwestern Germany to the Black Sea
DAPHNE: 1. any of several ornamental shrubs with shiny mostly evergreen leaves and clusters of small bell-shaped flowers. 2. (Greek mythology) a nymph who was transformed into a laurel tree to escape the amorous Apollo. 
DAPPER: marked by up-to-dateness in dress and manners
DARAF: a unit of elastance equal to the reciprocal of a farad
DARD: any of a group of Indic languages spoken in Kashmir and eastern Afghanistan and northern Pakistan
DARE: 1. a challenge to do something dangerous or foolhardy. 2. to be courageous enough to try or do something. 
DARFUR: an impoverished region of western Sudan
DARI: an Iranian language spoken in Afghanistan
DARK: 1. devoid of or deficient in light or brightness; shadowed or black. 2. secret. 3. (used of color) having a dark hue. 4. brunet (used of hair or skin or eyes). 5. showing a brooding ill humor. 6. marked by difficulty of style or expression. 7. not giving performances; closed. 
DARKEN: 1. become dark or darker. 2. tarnish or stain. 3. make dark or darker. 
DARKY: (ethnic slur) offensive term for Black people
DARKLY: 1. without light. 2. in a dark glowering menacing manner. 
DARN: repair by sewing
DARNEL: weedy annual grass often occurs in grainfields and other cultivated land; seeds sometimes considered poisonous
DARNER: a person who mends by darning
DART: 1. a small narrow pointed missile that is thrown or shot. 2. run or move very quickly or hastily. 3. move with sudden speed. 
DARTER: a person or other animal that moves abruptly and rapidly
DARTS: a game in which small pointed missiles are thrown at a dartboard
DARWIN: 1. English natural scientist who formulated a theory of evolution by natural selection (1809-1882). 2. provincial capital of the Northern Territory of Australia. 
DASH: 1. distinctive and stylish elegance. 2. a quick run. 3. a footrace run at top speed. 4. the longer of the two telegraphic signals used in Morse code. 5. add an enlivening or altering element to. 6. destroy or break. 
DASHED: having gaps or spaces
DATA: a collection of facts from which conclusions may be drawn
DATE: 1. go on a date with. 2. stamp with a date. 3. assign a date to; determine the (probable) date of. 4. a particular but unspecified point in time. 5. provide with a dateline; mark with a date. 6. the particular day, month, or year (usually according to the Gregorian calendar) that an event occurred. 7. a particular day specified as the time something happens. 8. sweet edible fruit of the date palm with a single long woody seed. 
DATED: marked by features of the immediate and usually discounted past
DATING: use of chemical analysis to estimate the age of geological specimens
DATIVE: the category of nouns serving as the indirect object of a verb
DATUM: an item of factual information derived from measurement or research
DATURA: thorn apple
DAUB: 1. material used to daub walls. 2. cover (a surface) by smearing (a substance) over it. 3. apply to a surface. 
DAUBER: an unskilled painter
DAUCUS: carrot
DAUNT: cause to lose courage
DAVY: English chemist who was a pioneer in electrochemistry and who used it to isolate elements sodium and potassium and barium and boron and calcium and magnesium and chlorine (1778-1829)
DAVID: 1. patron saint of Wales (circa 520-600). 2. French neoclassical painter who actively supported the French Revolution (1748-1825). 3. (Old Testament) the 2nd king of the Israelites; as a young shepherd he fought Goliath (a giant Philistine warrior) and killed him by hitting him in the head with a stone flung from a sling; he united Israel with Jerusalem as its capital; many of the Psalms are attributed to David (circa 1000-962 BC). 
DAVYS: English navigator who explored the Arctic while searching for the Northwest Passage (1550-1605)
DAVIT: a crane-like device (usually one of a pair) for suspending or lowering equipment (as a lifeboat)
DAWES: American patriot who rode with Paul Revere to warn that the British were advancing on Lexington and Concord (1745-1799)
DAWN: 1. the first light of day. 2. appear or develop. 3. become light. 
DAWSON: a town in northwestern Canada in the Yukon on the Yukon River; a boom town around 1900 when gold was discovered in the Klondike
DAZE: 1. the feeling of distress and disbelief that you have when something bad happens accidentally. 2. confusion characterized by lack of clarity. 
DAZED: 1. in a state of mental numbness especially as resulting from shock. 2. stunned or confused and slow to react (as from blows or drunkenness or exhaustion). 
DAZZLE: 1. to cause someone to lose clear vision, especially from intense light. 2. amaze or bewilder, as with brilliant wit or intellect or skill. 
D-DAY: date of the Allied landing in France, World War II
DEACON: 1. a Protestant layman who assists the minister. 2. a cleric ranking just below a priest in Christian churches; one of the Holy Orders. 
DEAD: 1. no longer having or seeming to have or expecting to have life. 2. not showing characteristics of life especially the capacity to sustain life; no longer exerting force or having energy or heat. 3. unerringly accurate. 4. physically inactive. 5. (followed by `to') not showing human feeling or sensitivity; unresponsive. 6. devoid of physical sensation; numb. 7. lacking acoustic resonance. 8. not yielding a return. 9. not circulating or flowing. 10. not surviving in active use. 11. lacking resilience or bounce. 12. out of use or operation because of a fault or breakdown. 13. no longer having force or relevance. 14. complete. 15. drained of electric charge; discharged. 16. devoid of activity; nothing ever happens here". 
DEADEN: 1. make vapid or deprive of spirit. 2. lessen the momentum or velocity of. 3. become lifeless, less lively, intense, or active; lose life, force, or vigor. 4. make less lively, intense, or vigorous; impair in vigor, force, activity, or sensation. 5. convert (metallic mercury) into a grey powder consisting of minute globules, as by shaking with chalk or fatty oil. 
DEADLY: 1. as if dead. 2. of an instrument of certain death. 3. extremely poisonous or injurious; producing venom. 4. involving loss of divine grace or spiritual death. 5. (of a disease) having a rapid course and violent effect. 
DEAF: 1. lacking or deprived of the sense of hearing wholly or in part. 2. (usually followed by `to') unwilling or refusing to pay heed. 
DEAFEN: 1. be unbearably loud. 2. make or render deaf. 3. make soundproof. 
DEAL: 1. a particular instance of buying or selling. 2. a plank of softwood (fir or pine board). 3. the type of treatment received (especially as the result of an agreement). 4. behave in a certain way towards others. 5. distribute cards to the players in a game. 6. take action with respect to (someone or something). 7. do business; offer for sale as for one's livelihood. 8. give (a specific card) to a player. 9. sell. 
DEALER: 1. a firm engaged in trading. 2. a seller of illicit goods. 3. the person who distributes the playing cards in a card game. 
DEAN: 1. an administrator in charge of a division of a university or college. 2. United States film actor whose moody rebellious roles made him a cult figure (1931-1955). 3. a man who is the senior member of a group. 4. (Roman Catholic Church) the head of the College of Cardinals. 
DEAR: 1. with or in a close or intimate relationship. 2. earnest. 
DEARLY: 1. in a sincere and heartfelt manner. 2. at a great cost. 3. with affection. 
DEARTH: 1. an acute insufficiency. 2. an insufficient quantity or number. 
DEATH: 1. the event of dying or departure from life. 2. the permanent end of all life functions in an organism or part of an organism. 3. the absence of life or state of being dead. 4. the time when something ends. 5. the time at which life ends; continuing until dead. 6. the personification of death. 7. the act of killing. 
DEBAR: prevent the occurrence of; prevent from happening
DEBASE: lower in value by increasing the base-metal content
DEBATE: 1. the formal presentation of a stated proposition and the opposition to it (usually followed by a vote). 2. argue with one another. 3. discuss the pros and cons of an issue. 
DEBIT: enter as debit
DEBRIS: the remains of something that has been destroyed or broken up
DEBT: 1. the state of owing something (especially money). 2. money or goods or services owed by one person to another. 3. an obligation to pay or do something. 
DEBTOR: a person who owes a creditor; someone who has the obligation of paying a debt
DEBUG: locate and correct errors in a computer program code
DEBUNK: expose while ridiculing; especially of pretentious or false claims and ideas
DEBUT: 1. appear for the first time in public. 2. present for the first time to the public. 3. make one's debut. 
DECADE: a period of 10 years
DECAY: 1. the process of gradually becoming inferior. 2. fall into decay or ruin. 3. undergo decay or decomposition. 4. an inferior state resulting from the process of decaying. 5. the spontaneous disintegration of a radioactive substance along with the emission of ionizing radiation. 
DECAL: either a design that is fixed to some surface or a paper bearing the design which is to be transferred to the surface
DECAMP: 1. leave a camp. 2. leave suddenly. 
DECANT: pour out
DECENT: 1. socially or conventionally correct; refined or virtuous. 2. conforming to conventions of sexual behavior. 3. decently clothed. 4. observing conventional sexual mores in speech or behavior or dress. 
DECIDE: 1. reach, make, or come to a decision about something. 2. bring to an end; settle conclusively. 3. cause to decide. 4. influence or determine. 
DECILE: (statistics) any of nine points that divided a distribution of ranked scores into equal intervals where each interval contains one-tenth of the scores
DECIUS: Emperor of Rome who was proclaimed emperor against his will; his reign was notable for his severe persecution of Christians (201-251)
DECK: 1. be beautiful to look at. 2. decorate. 3. a porch that resembles the deck on a ship. 4. knock down with force. 
DECKER: (often used in combinations) something constructed with multiple levels
DECKLE: (paper making) a frame used to form paper pulp into sheets
DECO: a style of design that was popular in the 1920s and 1930s; marked by stylized forms and geometric designs adapted to mass production
DECOCT: 1. extract the essence of something by boiling it. 2. steep in hot water. 
DECODE: convert code into ordinary language
DECOY: lure or entrap with or as if with a decoy
DECREE: issue a decree
DEDUCE: 1. reason by deduction; establish by deduction. 2. conclude by reasoning; in logic. 
DEED: a legal document signed and sealed and delivered to effect a transfer of property and to show the legal right to possess it
DEEM: keep in mind or convey as a conviction or view
DEEP: 1. relatively deep or strong; affecting one deeply. 2. to a great distance. 3. to an advanced time. 4. very distant in time or space. 5. extreme. 6. strong; intense. 7. relatively thick from top to bottom. 8. extending relatively far inward. 9. large in quantity or size. 10. with head or back bent low. 11. exhibiting great cunning usually with secrecy. 
DEEPEN: 1. make deeper. 2. become deeper in tone. 
DEEPLY: to a great depth; far down
DEER: distinguished from Bovidae by the male's having solid deciduous antlers
DEFACE: mar or spoil the appearance of
DEFAME: charge falsely or with malicious intent; attack the good name and reputation of someone
DEFANG: remove the fangs from
DEFAT: remove the fat from
DEFEAT: an unsuccessful ending to a struggle or contest
DEFECT: 1. desert (a cause, a country or an army), often in order to join the opposing cause, country, or army. 2. a failing or deficiency. 3. an imperfection in an object or machine. 
DEFEND: 1. argue or speak in defense of. 2. be on the defensive; act against an attack. 3. protect against a challenge or attack. 4. be the defense counsel for someone in a trial. 
DEFY: 1. resist or confront with resistance. 2. elude, especially in a baffling way. 3. challenge. 
DEFILE: place under suspicion or cast doubt upon
DEFINE: 1. give a definition for the meaning of a word. 2. determine the nature of. 3. show the form or outline of. 
DEFOE: English writer remembered particularly for his novel about Robinson Crusoe (1660-1731)
DEFORM: 1. make formless. 2. become misshapen. 3. alter the shape of (something) by stress. 
DEFRAY: bear the expenses of
DEFT: skillful in physical movements; especially of the hands
DEFTLY: in a deft manner
DEFUSE: remove the triggering device from
DEGAGE: 1. free and relaxed in manner. 2. showing lack of emotional involvement. 
DEGAS: remove gas from
DEGREE: 1. a position on a scale of intensity or amount or quality. 2. a specific identifiable position in a continuum or series or especially in a process. 3. a measure for arcs and angles. 4. the highest power of a term or variable. 5. a unit of temperature on a specified scale. 6. the seriousness of something (e.g., a burn or crime). 
DEGUST: taste with relish
DEHORN: 1. prevent the growth of horns of certain animals. 2. take the horns off (an animal). 
DEIFY: 1. consider as a god or godlike. 2. exalt to the position of a God. 
DEIFIC: characterized by divine or godlike nature
DEIMOS: the outer of two small satellites of Mars
DEISM: the form of theological rationalism that believes in God on the basis of reason without reference to revelation
DEIST: of or relating to deism
DEITY: any supernatural being worshipped as controlling some part of the world or some aspect of life or who is the personification of a force
DEIXIS: the function of pointing or specifying from the perspective of a participant in an act of speech or writing; aspects of a communication whose interpretation depends on knowledge of the context in which the communication occurs
DEKKER: English dramatist and pamphleteer (1572-1632)
DEKKO: British slang for a look
DELAY: 1. cause to be slowed down or delayed. 2. act later than planned, scheduled, or required. 
DELETE: remove or make invisible
DELF: an excavation; usually a quarry or mine
DELFT: a style of glazed earthenware; usually white with blue decoration
DELHI: a city in north central India
DELIST: remove (a security) from listing at a stock exchange
DELIUS: English composer of orchestral works (1862-1934)
DELL: a small wooded hollow
DELPHI: an ancient Greek city on the slopes of Mount Parnassus; site of the oracle of Delphi
DELTA: 1. a low triangular area of alluvial deposits where a river divides before entering a larger body of water. 2. an object shaped like an equilateral triangle. 3. the 4th letter of the Greek alphabet. 
DELUGE: fill quickly beyond capacity; as with a liquid
DELUXE: 1. rich and superior in quality. 2. elegant and sumptuous. 
DEMAND: 1. request urgently and forcefully. 2. the ability and desire to purchase goods and services. 3. lay legal claim to. 4. claim as due or just. 5. summon to court. 6. ask to be informed of. 
DEMISE: transfer by a lease or by a will
DEMIST: free from mist
DEMON: someone extremely diligent or skillful
DEMOTE: assign to a lower position; reduce in rank
DEMUR: 1. take exception to. 2. enter a demurrer. 
DEN: 1. a unit of 8 to 10 cub scouts. 2. a room that is comfortable and secluded. 
DENEB: the brightest star in Cygnus
DENGUE: an infectious disease of the tropics transmitted by mosquitoes and characterized by rash and aching head and joints
DENY: 1. declare untrue; contradict. 2. refuse to accept or believe. 3. refuse to grant, as of a petition or request. 4. refuse to let have. 5. deny oneself (something); restrain, especially from indulging in some pleasure. 6. refuse to recognize or acknowledge. 
DENIAL: 1. the act of refusing to comply (as with a request). 2. the act of asserting that something alleged is not true. 3. (psychiatry) a defense mechanism that denies painful thoughts. 
DENIER: 1. a unit of measurement for the fineness of silk or nylon or rayon. 2. any of various former European coins of different denominations. 3. one who denies. 
DENIM: a coarse durable twill-weave cotton fabric
DENOTE: 1. be a sign or indication of. 2. have as a meaning. 
DENSE: 1. permitting little if any light to pass through because of denseness of matter. 2. hard to pass through because of dense growth. 3. having high relative density or specific gravity. 4. slow to learn or understand; lacking intellectual acuity. 
DENT: 1. an appreciable consequence (especially a lessening). 2. an impression in a surface (as made by a blow). 
DENTAL: 1. of or relating to the teeth. 2. of or relating to dentistry. 
DENUDE: lay bare
DENVER: the state capital and largest city of Colorado; located in central Colorado on the South Platte river
DEODAR: tall East Indian cedar having spreading branches with nodding tips; highly valued for its appearance as well as its timber
DEPART: 1. leave. 2. go away or leave. 
DEPEND: be contingent upon (something that is elided)
DEPLOY: 1. place troops or weapons in battle formation. 2. to distribute systematically or strategically. 
DEPOSE: force to leave (an office)
DEPTH: 1. the extent downward or backward or inward. 2. degree of psychological or intellectual profundity. 3. (usually plural) the deepest and most remote part. 4. (usually plural) a low moral state. 5. the attribute or quality of being deep, strong, or intense. 
DEPUTE: appoint as a substitute
DEPUTY: 1. someone authorized to exercise the powers of sheriff in emergencies. 2. an assistant with power to act when his superior is absent. 3. a member of the lower chamber of a legislative assembly (such as in France). 4. a person appointed to represent or act on behalf of others. 
DERAIL: 1. cause to run off the tracks. 2. run off or leave the rails. 
DERAIN: French painter and exponent of fauvism (1880-1954)
DERATE: lower the rated electrical capability of electrical apparatus
DERIDE: treat or speak of with contempt
DERIVE: 1. obtain. 2. come from. 3. develop or evolve from a latent or potential state. 4. come from; be connected by a relationship of blood, for example. 
DERMAL: of or relating to or located in the dermis
DERMIS: the deep vascular inner layer of the skin
DERRIS: any of various usually woody vines of the genus Derris of tropical Asia whose roots yield the insecticide rotenone; several are sources of native fish and arrow poisons
DERV: diesel oil used in cars and lorries with diesel engines; from d(iesel) e(ngine) r(oad) v(ehicle)
DESCRY: catch sight of
DESERT: 1. arid land with little or no vegetation. 2. leave behind. 
DESIGN: 1. the act of working out the form of something (as by making a sketch or outline or plan). 2. plan something for a specific role or purpose or effect. 3. make a design of; plan out in systematic, often graphic form. 4. conceive or fashion in the mind; invent. 5. create the design for; create or execute in an artistic or highly skilled manner. 6. create designs. 7. intend or have as a purpose. 
DESIRE: 1. feel or have a desire for; want strongly. 2. an inclination to want things. 3. express a desire for. 
DESK: a piece of furniture with a writing surface and usually drawers or other compartments
DESMID: freshwater green algae
DESORB: 1. go away from the surface to which (a substance) is adsorbed. 2. remove from a surface on which it is adsorbed. 
DETACH: 1. cause to become detached or separated; take off. 2. separate (a small unit) from a larger, especially for a special assignment. 3. come to be detached. 
DETAIL: 1. provide details for. 2. assign to a specific task. 3. extended treatment of particulars. 4. a crew of workers selected for a particular task. 
DETECT: discover or determine the existence, presence, or fact of
DETER: try to prevent; show opposition to
DETICK: free (a pet) of ticks
DETOUR: travel via a detour
DETOX: treat for alcohol or drug dependence
DEUCE: 1. a tie in tennis or table tennis that requires winning two successive points to win the game. 2. one of the four playing cards in a deck that have two spots. 
DEVEIN: remove the dark dorsal vein of (a shrimp)
DEVICE: 1. an instrumentality invented for a particular purpose. 2. something in an artistic work designed to achieve a particular effect. 3. any clever maneuver. 4. any ornamental pattern or design (as in embroidery). 5. an emblematic design (especially in heraldry). 
DEVIL: 1. coat or stuff with a spicy paste. 2. a word used in exclamations of confusion. 
DEVISE: 1. a will disposing of real property. 2. (law) a gift of real property by will. 3. give by will, especially real property. 
DEVOIR: formal expression of respect
DEVON: 1. a county in southwestern England. 2. red dual-purpose cattle of English origin. 
DEVOTE: set aside or apart for a specific purpose or use
DEVOUR: 1. destroy completely. 2. enjoy avidly. 3. eat immoderately. 4. eat greedily. 
DEVOUT: deeply religious
DEW: water that has condensed on a cool surface overnight from water vapor in the air
DEWAR: Scottish chemist and physicist noted for his work in cryogenics and his invention of the Dewar flask (1842-1923)
DEWLAP: a hanging fold of loose skin on an elderly person's neck
DEXTER: on or starting from the wearer's right
DHAK: East Indian tree bearing a profusion of intense vermilion velvet-textured blooms and yielding a yellow dye
DHAKA: the capital and largest city of Bangladesh
DHARMA: basic principles of the cosmos; also: an ancient sage in Hindu mythology worshipped as a god by some lower castes; 
DHOLE: fierce wild dog of the forests of central and southeast Asia that hunts in packs
DHOTI: a long loincloth worn by Hindu men
DHOW: a lateen-rigged sailing vessel used by Arabs
DYADIC: of or relating to a dyad or based on two
DIAL: 1. operate a dial to select a telephone number. 2. choose by means of a dial. 3. the circular graduated indicator on various measuring instruments. 4. a disc on a telephone that is rotated a fixed distance for each number called. 
DIANA: 1. English aristocrat who was the first wife of Prince Charles; her death in an automobile accident in Paris produced intense national mourning (1961-1997). 2. (Roman mythology) virgin goddess of the hunt and the Moon; counterpart of Greek Artemis. 
DIAPER: 1. garment consisting of a folded cloth drawn up between the legs and fastened at the waist; worn by infants to catch excrement. 2. a fabric (usually cotton or linen) with a distinctive woven pattern of small repeated figures. 
DIAPIR: a domed rock formation where a core of rock has moved upward and pierced through the more brittle overlying strata
DIARY: 1. a daily written record of (usually personal) experiences and observations. 2. a personal journal (as a physical object). 
DIAS: Portuguese explorer who in 1488 was the first European to get round the Cape of Good Hope (thus establishing a sea route from the Atlantic to Asia) (1450-1500)
DIATOM: microscopic unicellular marine or freshwater colonial alga having cell walls impregnated with silica
DYAUS: Hindu god of the sky
DIAZO: relating to or containing diazonium
DIBBLE: 1. plant with a wooden hand tool. 2. make a hole with a wooden hand tool. 
DYBBUK: (Jewish folklore) a demon that enters the body of a living person and controls that body's behavior
DIBS: a claim of rights
DICE: play dice
DICER: a mechanical device used for dicing food
DICK: someone who is a detective
DICKEY: 1. a small third seat in the back of an old-fashioned two-seater. 2. a man's detachable insert (usually starched) to simulate the front of a shirt. 
DICKER: negotiate the terms of an exchange
DICKY: (British informal) faulty
DICOT: flowering plant with two cotyledons; the stem grows by deposit on its outside
DIDO: (Roman mythology) a princess of Tyre who was the founder and queen of Carthage; Virgil tells of her suicide when she was abandoned by Aeneas
DIE: 1. pass from physical life and lose all bodily attributes and functions necessary to sustain life. 2. suffer or face the pain of death. 3. be brought to or as if to the point of death by an intense emotion such as embarrassment, amusement, or shame. 4. feel indifferent towards. 5. languish as with love or desire. 6. cut or shape with a die. 7. to be on base at the end of an inning, of a player. 8. lose sparkle or bouquet. 9. disappear or come to an end. 10. suffer spiritual death; be damned (in the religious sense). 
DYE: color with dye
DYEING: the use of dye to change the color of something permanently
DYER: someone whose job is to dye cloth
DIESEL: 1. German engineer (born in France) who invented the diesel engine (1858-1913). 2. an internal-combustion engine that burns heavy oil. 
DIET: 1. follow a regimen or a diet, as for health reasons. 2. eat sparingly, for health reasons or to lose weight. 3. the usual food and drink consumed by an organism (person or animal). 4. the act of restricting your food intake (or your intake of particular foods). 
DIETER: a person who diets
DIFFER: be different
DIG: 1. turn up, loosen, or remove earth. 2. a small gouge (as in the cover of a book). 3. thrust down or into. 4. create by digging. 5. remove, harvest, or recover by digging. 
DIGEST: 1. convert food into absorbable substances. 2. arrange and integrate in the mind. 3. put up with something or somebody unpleasant. 4. become assimilated into the body. 5. systematize, as by classifying and summarizing. 6. soften or disintegrate, as by undergoing exposure to heat or moisture. 7. make more concise. 8. soften or disintegrate by means of chemical action, heat, or moisture. 
DIGGER: a laborer who digs
DIGIT: 1. one of the elements that collectively form a system of numeration. 2. a finger or toe in human beings or corresponding body part in other vertebrates. 
DYING: in or associated with the process of passing from life or ceasing to be
DIJON: an industrial city in eastern France to the north of Lyons
DIKE: enclose with a dike
DILATE: become wider
DILDO: a vibrating device that substitutes for an erect penis to provide vaginal stimulation
DILL: 1. aromatic Old World herb having aromatic threadlike foliage and seeds used as seasoning. 2. aromatic threadlike foliage of the dill plant used as seasoning. 
DILUTE: lessen the strength or flavor of a solution or mixture
DIM: 1. lacking in light; not bright or harsh. 2. lacking clarity or distinctness. 3. make dim or lusterless. 
DIME: a United States coin worth one tenth of a dollar
DIMER: a compound whose molecules are composed of two identical monomers
DIMITY: a strong cotton fabric with a raised pattern; used for bedcovers and curtains
DIMLY: 1. in a dim indistinct manner. 2. with a dim light. 
DIMMED: made dim or less bright
DIMMER: a rheostat that varies the current through an electric light in order to control the level of illumination
DIMPLE: 1. produce dimples while smiling. 2. a small natural hollow in the cheek or chin. 3. mark with, or as if with, dimples. 
DIMWIT: a stupid incompetent person
DIN: instill (into a person) by constant repetition
DYNAMO: generator consisting of a coil (the armature) that rotates between the poles of an electromagnet (the field magnet) causing a current to flow in the armature
DYNAST: a hereditary ruler
DINE: 1. have supper; eat dinner. 2. give dinner to; host for dinner. 
DYNE: a unit of force equal to the force that imparts an acceleration of 1 cm/sec/sec to a mass of 1 gram
DINER: 1. a person eating a meal (especially in a restaurant). 2. a restaurant that resembles a dining car. 
DING: go `ding dong', like a bell
DINGE: 1. make a dent or impression in. 2. make dingy. 
DINGHY: a small boat of shallow draft with cross thwarts for seats and rowlocks for oars with which it is propelled
DINGO: wolflike yellowish-brown wild dog of Australia
DINING: the act of eating dinner
DINK: a couple who both have careers and no children (an acronym for dual income no kids)
DINKA: a Nilotic language
DINKY: 1. small and insignificant. 2. (British informal) pretty and neat. 
DINNER: 1. the main meal of the day served in the evening or at midday. 2. a party of people assembled to have dinner together. 
DINT: interchangeable with `means' in the expression `by means of'
DIODE: 1. a thermionic tube having two electrodes; used as a rectifier. 2. a semiconductor that consists of a p-n junction. 
DIODON: type genus of the Diodontidae
DIOL: any of a class of alcohols having 2 hydroxyl groups in each molecule
DIOON: any cycad of the genus Dioon; handsome palmlike cycads with robust crowns of leaves and rugged trunks
DIOR: French couturier whose first collection in 1947 created a style that became known as the New Look (1905-1957)
DIOXIN: any of several toxic or carcinogenic hydrocarbons that occur as impurities in herbicides
DIP: 1. a depression in an otherwise level surface. 2. (physics) the angle that a magnetic needle makes with the plane of the horizon. 3. stain an object by immersing it in a liquid. 4. take a small amount from. 5. lower briefly. 6. appear to move downward. 7. slope downwards. 8. go down momentarily. 9. dip into a liquid. 10. place (candle wicks) into hot, liquid wax. 11. immerse in a disinfectant solution. 12. plunge (one's hand or a receptacle) into a container. 13. scoop up by plunging one's hand or a ladle below the surface. 
DIPNOI: bony fishes of the southern hemisphere that breathe by a modified air bladder as well as gills; sometimes classified as an order of Crossopterygii
DIPOLE: 1. a pair of equal and opposite electric charges or magnetic poles separated by a small distance. 2. an aerial half a wavelength long consisting of two rods connected to a transmission line at the center. 
DIPPED: having abnormal sagging of the spine (especially in horses)
DIPPER: a ladle that has a cup with a long handle
DIPUS: type genus of the Dipodidae; typical jerboas having three toes on each hind foot
DIRAC: English theoretical physicist who applied relativity theory to quantum mechanics and predicted the existence of antimatter and the positron (1902-1984)
DIRCA: deciduous shrub of North America: leatherwood
DIRECT: 1. direct in spatial dimensions; proceeding without deviation or interruption; straight and short. 2. straightforward in means or manner or behavior or language or action. 3. be in charge of. 4. in precisely the same words used by a writer or speaker. 5. having no intervening persons, agents, conditions. 6. moving from west to east on the celestial sphere; or--for planets--around the sun in the same direction as the Earth. 7. similar in nature or effect or relation to another quantity. 8. (of a current) flowing in one direction only. 9. being an immediate result or consequence. 10. lacking compromising or mitigating elements; exact. 
DIRGE: a song or hymn of mourning composed or performed as a memorial to a dead person
DIRK: a relatively long dagger with a straight blade
DIRNDL: 1. a full skirt with a gathered waistband. 2. a dress with a tight bodice and full skirt. 
DIRT: 1. the state of being covered with unclean things. 2. (of roads) not leveled or drained; unsuitable for all year travel. 
DIRTY: 1. soiled or likely to soil with dirt or grime. 2. (of behavior or especially language) characterized by obscenity or indecency. 3. vile; despicable. 4. spreading pollution or contamination; especially radioactive contamination. 5. contaminated with infecting organisms. 6. (of color) discolored by impurities; not bright and clear. 7. (of a manuscript) defaced with changes. 8. obtained illegally or by improper means. 9. expressing or revealing hostility or dislike. 10. unethical or dishonest. 11. unpleasantly stormy. 
DISA: any orchid of the genus Disa; beautiful orchids with dark green leaves and usually hooded flowers; much prized as emblematic flowers in their native regions
DISARM: 1. remove offensive capability from. 2. make less hostile; win over. 3. take away the weapons from; render harmless. 
DISBAR: remove from the bar; expel from the practice of law by official action
DISBUD: 1. thin out buds to improve the quality of the remaining flowers. 2. destroy undeveloped horn buds (of cattle). 
DISCO: 1. dance to disco music. 2. a public dance hall for dancing to recorded popular music. 
DISCUS: 1. an athletic competition in which a disk-shaped object is thrown as far as possible. 2. a disk used in throwing competitions. 
DISH: 1. a piece of dishware normally used as a container for holding or serving food. 2. make concave; shape like a dish. 3. the quantity that a dish will hold. 4. directional antenna consisting of a parabolic reflector for microwave or radio frequency radiation. 
DISHED: shaped like a dish or pan
DISHY: (informal British) sexually attractive
DISK: 1. something with a round shape resembling a flat circular plate. 2. a flat circular plate. 
DISMAY: fill with apprehension or alarm; cause to be unpleasantly surprised
DISNEY: United States film maker who pioneered animated cartoons and created such characters as Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck; founded Disneyland (1901-1966)
DISOWN: cast off
DISS: treat, mention, or speak to rudely
DISTAL: 1. situated farthest from point of attachment or origin, as of a limb or bone. 2. directed away from the midline or mesial plane of the body. 
DITA: evergreen tree of eastern Asia and Philippines having large leathery leaves and small green-white flowers in compact cymes; bark formerly used medicinally
DITCH: 1. forsake. 2. any small natural waterway. 3. make an emergency landing on water. 4. crash or crash-land. 
DITHER: 1. act nervously; be undecided; be uncertain. 2. make a fuss; be agitated. 
DITTY: a short simple song (or the words of a poem intended to be sung)
DITTO: repeat an action or statement
DIVAN: 1. a long backless sofa (usually with pillows against a wall). 2. a Muslim council of state. 3. a collection of Persian or Arabic poems (usually by one author). 4. a Muslim council chamber or law court. 
DIVE: 1. plunge into water. 2. swim under water. 3. drop steeply. 
DIVER: 1. someone who works underwater. 2. someone who dives (into water). 
DIVERS: many and different
DIVERT: 1. send on a course or in a direction different from the planned or intended one. 2. withdraw (money) and move into a different location, often secretly and with dishonest intentions. 
DIVEST: 1. deprive of status or authority. 2. reduce or dispose of; cease to hold (an investment). 
DIVIDE: 1. separate into parts or portions. 2. perform a division. 
DIVINE: 1. emanating from God. 2. search by divining, as if with a rod. 3. being or having the nature of a god; 'tis God-like to create"-J.G.Saxe. 4. devoted to or in the service or worship of a deity. 5. appropriate to or befitting a god. 6. being of such surpassing excellence as to suggest inspiration by the gods. 
DIVING: an athletic competition that involves diving into water
DIVOT: 1. (golf) the cavity left when a piece of turf is cut from the ground by the club head in making a stroke. 2. a piece of turf dug out of a lawn or fairway (by an animals hooves or a golf club). 
DIVVY: short for dividend; especially one paid by a cooperative society
DIXIE: a large metal pot (12 gallon camp kettle) for cooking; used in military camps
DIZZY: having or causing a whirling sensation; liable to falling
DOBRA: the basic unit of money on Sao Tome e Principe
DOBSON: large soft-bodied insect having long slender mandibles in the male; aquatic larvae often used as bait
DOCENT: a teacher at some universities
DOCILE: 1. willing to be taught or led or supervised or directed. 2. ready and willing to be taught. 3. easily handled or managed. 
DOCK: 1. come into dock. 2. deprive someone of benefits, as a penalty. 3. remove or shorten the tail of an animal. 4. maneuver into a dock. 5. the solid bony part of the tail of an animal as distinguished from the hair. 6. deduct from someone's wages. 
DOCKET: 1. place on the docket for legal action. 2. make a summary or abstract of a legal document and inscribe it in a list. 
DOCTOR: 1. a licensed medical practitioner. 2. children take the roles of physician or patient or nurse and pretend they are at the physician's office. 3. a person who holds Ph.D. degree (or the equivalent) from an academic institution. 4. give medical treatment to. 
DODDER: a leafless annual parasitic vine of the genus Cuscuta having whitish or yellow filamentous stems; obtain nourishment through haustoria
DODDLE: an easy task
DODGE: 1. move to and fro or from place to place usually in an irregular course. 2. a statement that evades the question by cleverness or trickery. 3. make a sudden movement in a new direction so as to avoid. 
DODGER: a shifty deceptive person
DODO: 1. someone whose style is out of fashion. 2. extinct heavy flightless bird of Mauritius related to pigeons. 
DODOMA: a city in the center of Tanzania that has been designated as the future capital
DOE: mature female of mammals of which the male is called `buck'
DOFF: remove
DOG: 1. a member of the genus Canis (probably descended from the common wolf) that has been domesticated by man since prehistoric times; occurs in many breeds. 2. informal term for a man. 
DOGE: formerly the chief magistrate in the republics of Venice and Genoa
DOGGED: stubbornly unyielding
DOGGO: quietly in concealment
DOGIE: motherless calf in a range herd of cattle
DOGLEG: 1. angle that resembles the hind leg of a dog. 2. a golf hole with a sharp angle in the fairway. 
DOGMA: 1. a religious doctrine that is proclaimed as true without proof. 2. a doctrine or code of beliefs accepted as authoritative. 
DOHA: the capital and chief port of Qatar
DOILY: a small round piece of linen placed under a dish or bowl
DOL: a unit of pain intensity
DOLBY: United States electrical engineer who devised the Dolby system used to reduce background noise in tape recording
DOLCE: gently and sweetly
DOLE: 1. a share of money or food or clothing that has been charitably given. 2. money received from the state. 
DOLL: a small replica of a person; used as a toy
DOLLAR: 1. the basic monetary unit in many countries; equal to 100 cents. 2. a piece of paper money worth one dollar. 3. a United States coin worth one dollar. 4. a symbol of commercialism or greed. 
DOLLY: 1. conveyance consisting of a wheeled support on which a camera can be mounted. 2. conveyance consisting of a wheeled platform for moving heavy objects. 
DOLLOP: a small measure (usually of food)
DOLMAN: 1. a hussar's jacket worn over the shoulders. 2. a woman's cloak with dolman sleeves. 
DOLMAS: well-seasoned rice (with nuts or currants or minced lamb) simmered or braised in stock
DOLMEN: a prehistoric megalithic tomb typically having two large upright stones and a capstone
DOLOR: (poetry) painful grief
DOMAIN: 1. territory over which rule or control is exercised. 2. (mathematics) the set of values of the independent variable for which a function is defined. 
DOME: 1. a concave shape whose distinguishing characteristic is that the concavity faces downward. 2. a stadium that has a roof. 3. a hemispherical roof. 
DOMED: having a hemispherical vault or dome
DOMINO: 1. United States rhythm and blues pianist and singer and composer (born in 1928). 2. a loose hooded cloak worn with a half mask as part of a masquerade costume. 3. a mask covering the upper part of the face but with holes for the eyes. 4. a small rectangular block used in playing the game of dominoes; the face of each block has two equal areas that can bear 0 to 6 dots. 
DON: 1. a Spanish gentleman or nobleman. 2. the head of an organized crime family. 3. Celtic goddess; mother of Gwydion and Arianrhod; corresponds to Irish Danu. 4. a European river in southwestern Russia; flows into the Sea of Azov. 5. a Spanish courtesy title or form of address for men that is prefixed to the forename. 
DONA: a Spanish courtesy title or form of address for a woman
DONAR: the Teutonic god of thunder; counterpart of Norse Thor
DONATE: give to a charity or good cause
DONE: 1. having finished or arrived at completion. 2. cooked until ready to serve. 
DONKEY: the symbol of the Democratic Party; introduced in cartoons by Thomas Nast in 1874
DONNA: an Italian woman of rank
DONNE: English clergyman and metaphysical poet celebrated as a preacher (1572-1631)
DONOR: 1. person who makes a gift of property. 2. (medicine) someone who gives blood or tissue or an organ to be used in another person (the host). 
DOODAD: something unspecified whose name is either forgotten or not known
DOODIA: any fern of the genus Doodia having pinnate fronds with sharply dentate pinnae
DOODLE: make a doodle; draw aimlessly
DOOM: 1. an unpleasant or disastrous destiny. 2. make certain of the failure or destruction of. 
DOOMED: 1. marked for certain death. 2. marked by or promising bad fortune. 3. (usually followed by `to') determined by tragic fate. 
DOOR: 1. a swinging or sliding barrier that will close the entrance to a room or building or vehicle. 2. anything providing a means of access (or escape). 3. a structure where people live or work (usually ordered along a street or road). 4. a room that is entered via a door. 
DOPA: amino acid that is formed in the liver and converted into dopamine in the brain
DOPE: 1. slang terms for inside information. 2. take drugs to improve one's athletic performance. 3. add impurities to (a semiconductor) in order to produce or modify its properties. 4. give a narcotic to. 
DOPED: 1. treated or impregnated with a foreign substance. 2. under the influence of narcotics. 
DORADO: a constellation in the southern hemisphere near Reticulum and Pictor; contains most of the Large Magellanic Cloud
DORY: marine fishes widely distributed in mid-waters and deep slope waters
DORIAN: 1. of or relating to the ancient Greek inhabitants of Doris, to their Doric dialect of Greek, or to their culture. 2. the ancient Greek inhabitants of Doris who entered Greece from the north about 1100 BC. 
DORIC: of or pertaining to the Doric style of architecture
DORIS: 1. (Greek mythology) wife of Nereus and mother of the Nereids. 2. a small region of ancient Greece where the Doric dialect was spoken. 
DORMER: a gabled extension built out from a sloping roof to accommodate a vertical window
DORMIE: in match play a side that stands as many holes ahead as there are holes remaining to be played
DORSAL: belonging to or on or near the back or upper surface of an animal or organ or part
DORSUM: the back of the body of a vertebrate or any analogous surface (as the upper or outer surface of an organ or appendage or part)
DOS: an operating system that is on a disk
DOSE: 1. treat with an agent; add (an agent) to. 2. the quantity of an active agent (substance or radiation) taken in or absorbed at any one time. 
DOSED: treated with some kind of application
DOSS: sleep in a convenient place
DOSSAL: an ornamental hanging of rich fabric hung behind the altar of a church or at the sides of a chancel
DOSSER: someone who sleeps in any convenient place
DOT: 1. make a dot or dots. 2. scatter or intersperse like dots or studs. 3. mark with a dot. 
DOTAGE: mental infirmity as a consequence of old age; sometimes shown by foolish infatuations
DOTARD: an oldster in his dotage; someone whose age has impaired his intellect
DOTE: 1. be foolish or senile due to old age. 2. shower with love; show excessive affection for. 
DOTTED: having a pattern of dots
DOTTLE: the residue of partially burnt tobacco left caked in the bowl of a pipe after smoking
DOUALA: the largest city of Cameroon
DOUBLE: 1. downward and forward. 2. two together. 3. twice as great or many. 4. used of flowers having more than the usual number of petals in crowded or overlapping arrangements. 5. bridge: make a demand for (a card or suit). 6. large enough for two. 7. having two meanings with intent to deceive. 
DOUBLY: 1. to double the degree. 2. in a twofold manner. 
DOUBT: 1. consider unlikely or have doubts about. 2. lack confidence in or have doubts about. 
DOUCHE: 1. direct a spray of water into a bodily cavity, for cleaning. 2. irrigation with a jet of water or medicated solution into or around a body part (especially the vagina) to treat infections or cleanse from odorous contents. 
DOUGH: a flour mixture stiff enough to knead or roll
DOUGHY: having the consistency of dough because of insufficient leavening or improper cooking; it's a doughy mess"
DOUR: harshly uninviting or formidable in manner or appearance
DOURLY: in a sullen manner
DOUSE: 1. put out, as of a candle or a light. 2. wet thoroughly. 3. lower quickly. 4. slacken. 
DOVE: 1. any of numerous small pigeons. 2. someone who prefers negotiations to armed conflict in the conduct of foreign relations. 3. an emblem of peace. 
DOVER: the capital of the state of Delaware
DOWDY: 1. primly out of date. 2. lacking in smartness or taste. 
DOWEL: a fastener that is inserted into holes in two adjacent pieces and holds them together
DOWER: a life estate to which a wife is entitled on the death of her husband
DOWN: 1. spatially or metaphorically from a higher to a lower level or position. 2. away from a more central or a more northerly place. 3. paid in cash at time of purchase. 4. from an earlier time. 5. to a lower intensity. 6. shut. 7. not functioning (temporarily or permanently). 8. in an inactive or inoperative state. 
DOWNY: 1. like down or as soft as down. 2. covered with fine soft hairs or down. 
DOWRY: money or property brought by a woman to her husband at marriage
DOWSE: 1. searching for underground water or minerals by using a dowsing rod. 2. use a divining rod in search of underground water or metal. 
DOZE: a light fitful sleep
DPHIL: a British doctorate
DRAB: 1. lacking in liveliness or charm or surprise. 2. lacking brightness or color; dull. 
DRABA: any of numerous low-growing cushion-forming plants of the genus Draba having rosette-forming leaves and terminal racemes of small flowers with scapose or leafy stems; fruit is a dehiscent oblong or linear silique
DRABLY: in a drab manner
DRACO: 1. Athenian lawmaker whose code of laws prescribed death for almost every offense (circa 7th century BC). 2. a faint constellation twisting around the north celestial pole and lying between Ursa Major and Cepheus. 3. a reptile genus known as flying dragons or flying lizards. 
DRAFT: 1. draw up an outline or sketch for something. 2. a current of air (usually coming into a chimney or room or vehicle). 3. a preliminary sketch of a design or picture. 4. a serving of drink (usually alcoholic) drawn from a keg. 5. any of the various versions in the development of a written work. 6. the depth of a vessel's keel below the surface (especially when loaded). 7. a regulator for controlling the flow of air in a fireplace. 8. a dose of liquid medicine. 9. the act of moving a load by drawing or pulling. 
DRAFTY: not airtight
DRAG: 1. pull, as against a resistance. 2. something that slows or delays progress. 3. something tedious and boring. 4. move slowly and as if with great effort. 5. the act of dragging (pulling with force). 6. to lag or linger behind. 7. use a computer mouse to move icons on the screen and select commands from a menu. 8. persuade to come away from something attractive or interesting. 9. proceed for an extended period of time. 
DRAGEE: 1. silvery candy beads used for decorating cakes. 2. sugar-coated nut or fruit piece. 3. pill that is a sugar-coated medicated candy. 
DRAGON: 1. a creature of Teutonic mythology; usually represented as breathing fire and having a reptilian body and sometimes wings. 2. a fiercely vigilant and unpleasant woman. 3. any of several small tropical Asian lizards capable of gliding by spreading winglike membranes on each side of the body. 
DRAY: a low heavy horse cart without sides; used for haulage
DRAIN: 1. flow off gradually. 2. deplete of resources. 3. empty of liquid; drain the liquid from. 4. a gradual depletion of energy or resources. 
DRAKE: 1. English explorer and admiral who was the first Englishman to circumnavigate the globe and who helped to defeat the Spanish Armada (1540-1596). 2. adult male of a wild or domestic duck. 
DRAM: 1. a unit of apothecary weight equal to an eighth of an ounce or to 60 grains. 2. 1/16 ounce or 1.771 grams. 3. the basic unit of money in Armenia. 
DRAMA: 1. an episode that is turbulent or highly emotional. 2. the literary genre of works intended for the theater. 3. the quality of being arresting or highly emotional. 
DRAPE: 1. place casually. 2. a sterile covering arranged over a patient's body during a medical examination or during surgery in order to reduce the possibility of contamination. 3. arrange in a particular way. 4. cover or dress loosely with cloth. 
DRAPED: covered in folds of cloth
DRAPER: a dealer in fabrics and sewing materials (and sometimes in clothing and drygoods)
DRAW: 1. a gully that is shallower than a ravine. 2. the finish of a contest in which the score is tied and the winner is undecided. 3. make, formulate, or derive in the mind. 4. bring, take, or pull out of a container or from under a cover. 5. take liquid out of a container or well. 6. poker in which a player can discard cards and receive substitutes from the dealer. 7. select or take in from a given group or region. 8. represent by making a drawing of, as with a pencil, chalk, etc. on a surface. 9. elicit responses, such as objections, criticism, applause, etc.. 10. move or go steadily or gradually. 11. choose at random. 12. earn or achieve a base by being walked by the pitcher. 13. bring or lead someone to a certain action or condition. 14. cause to flow. 15. write a legal document or paper. 16. engage in drawing. 17. move or pull so as to cover or uncover something. 18. allow a draft. 19. require a specified depth for floating. 20. pull (a person) apart with four horses tied to his extremities, so as to execute him. 21. contract. 22. reduce the diameter of (a wire or metal rod) by pulling it through a die. 23. steep; pass through a strainer. 24. flatten, stretch, or mold metal or glass, by rolling or by pulling it through a die or by stretching. 25. cause to localize at one point. 
DRAWEE: the person (or bank) who is expected to pay a check or draft when it is presented for payment
DRAWER: 1. a boxlike container in a piece of furniture; made so as to slide in and out. 2. the person who writes a check or draft instructing the drawee to pay someone else. 
DRAWL: lengthen and slow down or draw out
DRAWN: having the curtains or draperies closed or pulled shut
DREAM: 1. have a daydream; indulge in a fantasy. 2. experience while sleeping. 3. a state of mind characterized by abstraction and release from reality. 4. someone or something wonderful. 
DREAMY: 1. dreamy in mood or nature. 2. lacking spirit or liveliness. 
DREDGE: 1. cover before cooking. 2. search (as the bottom of a body of water) for something valuable or lost. 3. remove with a power shovel, usually from a bottom of a body of water. 
DREG: a small amount of residue
DREGS: sediment that has settled at the bottom of a liquid
DREY: the nest of a squirrel
DRENCH: 1. force to drink. 2. cover with liquid; pour liquid onto. 
DRESS: 1. put on clothes. 2. (of an occasion) requiring formal clothes. 3. put a finish on. 4. dress in a certain manner. 5. kill and prepare for market or consumption. 6. arrange in ranks. 7. provide with decoration. 8. put a dressing on. 9. cut down rough-hewn (lumber) to standard thickness and width. 10. convert into leather. 11. apply a bandage or medication to. 12. give a neat appearance to. 13. arrange attractively. 
DRESSY: in fancy clothing
DRY: 1. free from liquid or moisture; lacking natural or normal moisture or depleted of water; or no longer wet. 2. humorously sarcastic or mocking. 3. lacking moisture or volatile components. 4. opposed to or prohibiting the production and sale of alcoholic beverages. 5. not producing milk. 6. (of liquor) having a low residual sugar content because of decomposition of sugar during fermentation. 7. without a mucous or watery discharge; a small child with a dry nose". 8. not shedding tears. 9. lacking interest or stimulation; dull and lifeless. 10. used of solid substances in contrast with liquid ones. 11. unproductive especially of the expected results. 12. having no adornment or coloration. 13. (of food) eaten without a spread or sauce or other garnish. 14. having a large proportion of strong liquor. 15. lacking warmth or emotional involvement. 16. practicing complete abstinence from alcoholic beverages; I happen to be teetotal". 
DRYAD: a deity or nymph of the woods
DRYAS: mountain avens
DRYDEN: the outstanding poet and dramatist of the Restoration (1631-1700)
DRIED: 1. not still wet. 2. preserved by removing natural moisture. 
DRYER: an appliance that removes moisture
DRIFT: 1. a force that moves something along. 2. the gradual departure from an intended course due to external influences (as a ship or plane). 3. a process of linguistic change over a period of time. 4. vary or move from a fixed point or course. 5. a general tendency to change (as of opinion). 6. move in an unhurried fashion. 7. cause to be carried by a current. 8. drive slowly and far afield for grazing. 9. be subject to fluctuation. 10. be piled up in banks or heaps by the force of wind or a current. 
DRILL: 1. a tool with a sharp point and cutting edges for making holes in hard materials (usually rotating rapidly or by repeated blows). 2. train in the military, e.g., in the use of weapons. 3. teach by repetition. 4. learn by repetition. 5. undergo military training or do military exercises. 
DRIMYS: shrubs and trees of southern hemisphere having aromatic foliage
DRINK: 1. take in liquids. 2. consume alcohol. 3. any large deep body of water. 4. drink excessive amounts of alcohol; be an alcoholic. 
DRIP: 1. fall in drops. 2. the sound of a liquid falling drop by drop. 3. (architecture) a projection from a cornice or sill designed to protect the area below from rainwater (as over a window or doorway). 
DRIPPY: 1. wet with light rain. 2. leaking in drops. 
DRIVE: 1. operate or control a vehicle. 2. travel or be transported in a vehicle. 3. to compel or force or urge relentlessly or exert coercive pressure on, or motivate strongly. 4. hitting a golf ball off of a tee with a driver. 5. compel somebody to do something, often against his own will or judgment. 6. push, propel, or press with force. 7. cause to move rapidly by striking or throwing with force. 8. (computer science) a device that writes data onto or reads data from a storage medium. 9. move into a desired direction of discourse. 10. have certain properties when driven. 11. cause someone or something to move by driving. 12. work as a driver. 13. move by being propelled by a force. 14. urge forward. 15. proceed along in a vehicle. 16. strike with a driver, as in teeing off. 17. hit very hard, as by swinging a bat horizontally. 18. excavate horizontally. 19. cause to function by supplying the force or power for or by controlling. 20. hunting: search for game. 21. hunting: chase from cover into more open ground. 
DRIVEL: let saliva drivel from the mouth
DRIVEN: 1. compelled forcibly by an outside agency. 2. urged or forced to action through moral pressure. 
DRIVER: 1. the operator of a motor vehicle. 2. someone who drives animals that pull a vehicle. 3. a golfer who hits the golf ball with a driver. 4. (computer science) a program that determines how a computer will communicate with a peripheral device. 5. a golf club (a wood) with a near vertical face that is used for hitting long shots from the tee. 
DROGUE: 1. a funnel-shaped device towed as a target by an airplane. 2. a parachute used to decelerate an object that is moving rapidly. 
DROLL: comical in an odd or whimsical manner
DRONE: 1. make a monotonous low dull sound. 2. an aircraft without a pilot that is operated by remote control. 3. a pipe of the bagpipe that is tuned to produce a single continuous tone. 4. talk in a monotonous voice. 
DROOL: saliva spilling from the mouth
DROOP: hang loosely or laxly
DROP: 1. let fall to the ground. 2. to fall vertically. 3. go down in value. 4. terminate an association with. 5. utter with seeming casualness; drop names". 6. leave or unload. 7. the act of dropping something. 8. stop pursuing or acting. 9. lose (a game). 10. take (a drug, especially LSD), by mouth. 11. omit (a letter or syllable) in speaking or writing. 12. change from one level to another. 13. fall or sink into a state of exhaustion or death. 14. give birth; used for animals. 
DROVE: 1. a group of animals (a herd or flock) moving together. 2. a moving crowd. 3. a stonemason's chisel with a broad edge for dressing stone. 
DROWN: 1. get rid of as if by submerging. 2. die from being submerged in water, getting water into the lungs, and asphyxiating. 3. kill by submerging in water. 
DROWSE: be on the verge of sleeping
DROWSY: 1. half asleep. 2. showing lack of attention or boredom. 
DRUDGE: a laborer who is obliged to do menial work
DRUG: 1. administer a drug to. 2. use recreational drugs. 
DRUID: a pre-Christian priest among the Celts of ancient Gaul and Britain and Ireland
DRUM: 1. make a rhythmic sound. 2. play a percussion instrument. 3. a cylindrical metal container used for shipping or storage of liquids. 4. small to medium-sized bottom-dwelling food and game fishes of shallow coastal and fresh waters that make a drumming noise. 
DRUNK: someone who is intoxicated
DRUPE: fleshy indehiscent fruit with a single seed: e.g. almond; peach; plum; cherry; elderberry; olive; jujube
DRUZE: an adherent of an esoteric monotheistic religious sect living in the relative security of the mountains of Syria and Lebanon who believes that Al-hakim was an incarnation of God
DUAL: a grammatical number category referring to two items or units as opposed to one item (singular) or more than two items (plural)
DUB: 1. give a nickname to. 2. provide (movies) with a soundtrack of a foreign language. 
DUBAI: port city in the United Arab Emirates on the Persian Gulf
DUBBIN: tallow mixed with oil; used to make leather soft and waterproof
DUBLIN: capital and largest city and major port of the Irish Republic
DUCAL: of or belonging to or suitable for a duke
DUCAT: formerly a gold coin of various European countries
DUCE: leader
DUCHY: the domain controlled by a duke or duchess
DUCK: 1. to move (the head or body) quickly downwards or away. 2. submerge or plunge suddenly. 3. flesh of a duck (domestic or wild). 4. a heavy cotton fabric of plain weave; used for clothing and tents. 
DUCT: 1. a bodily passage or tube lined with epithelial cells and conveying a secretion or other substance. 2. a continuous tube formed by a row of elongated cells lacking intervening end walls. 3. an enclosed conduit for a fluid. 
DUD: failing to detonate; especially not charged with an active explosive
DUDEEN: a clay pipe with a short stem
DUE: 1. directly or exactly; straight. 2. scheduled to arrive. 3. suitable to or expected in the circumstances. 
DUEL: 1. fight a duel, as over one's honor or a woman. 2. any struggle between two skillful opponents (individuals or groups). 
DUELER: a person who fights duels
DUENNA: a woman chaperon
DUET: 1. two performers or singers who perform together. 2. a musical composition for two performers. 
DUFF: a stiff flour pudding steamed or boiled usually and containing e.g. currants and raisins and citron
DUFFEL: a coarse heavy woolen fabric
DUFFER: an incompetent or clumsy person
DUFY: French painter noted for brightly colored scenes (1877-1953)
DUG: an udder or breast or teat
DUGONG: sirenian tusked mammal found from eastern Africa to Australia; the flat tail is bilobate
DUGOUT: either of two low shelters on either side of a baseball diamond where the players and coaches sit during the game
DUKAS: French composer (1865-1935)
DUKE: 1. a British peer of the highest rank. 2. a nobleman (in various countries) of high rank. 
DULCET: 1. extremely pleasant in a gentle way. 2. pleasing to the ear. 
DULL: 1. lacking in liveliness or animation. 2. emitting or reflecting very little light. 3. (of color) very low in saturation; highly diluted. 4. make less lively or vigorous. 5. being or made softer or less loud or clear. 6. not keenly felt. 7. (of business) not active or brisk. 8. not having a sharp edge or point. 9. blunted in responsiveness or sensibility. 10. not clear and resonant; sounding as if striking with or against something relatively soft. 11. darkened with overcast. 
DULLED: 1. having lost or been caused to lose interest because of overexposure. 2. deprived of color. 
DULLY: 1. without liveliness. 2. without luster or shine. 
DULSE: coarse edible red seaweed
DULUTH: a city in northeast Minnesota on Lake Superior
DUMA: a legislative body in the ruling assembly of Russia and of some other republics in the former USSR
DUMAS: French writer remembered for his swashbuckling historical tales (1802-1870)
DUMB: 1. lacking the power of human speech. 2. unable to speak because of hereditary deafness. 
DUMBLY: 1. in a stupid manner. 2. in an inarticulate manner. 
DUMDUM: a soft-nosed small-arms bullet that expands when it hits a target and causes a gaping wound
DUMMY: 1. having the appearance of being real but lacking capacity to function. 2. a figure representing the human form. 
DUMP: 1. sever all ties with, usually unceremoniously or irresponsibly. 2. sell at artificially low prices. 3. drop (stuff) in a heap or mass. 4. throw away as refuse. 
DUMPY: 1. resembling a garbage dump. 2. short and plump. 
DUMPS: an informal expression for a mildly depressed state
DUMUZI: Sumerian and Babylonian god of pastures and vegetation; consort of Inanna
DUN: 1. of a dull greyish brown to brownish grey color. 2. persistently ask for overdue payment. 3. cure by salting. 4. make a dun color. 
DUNCE: a stupid person; these words are used to express a low opinion of someone's intelligence
DUNE: a ridge of sand created by the wind; found in deserts or near lakes and oceans
DUNG: 1. fertilize or dress with dung. 2. defecate; used of animals. 
DUNK: 1. immerse briefly into a liquid so as to wet, coat, or saturate. 2. make a dunk shot, in basketball. 3. dip into a liquid while eating. 
DUNKER: 1. an eater who dips food into a liquid before eating it. 2. a basketball player who is able to make dunk shots. 3. an adherent of Baptistic doctrines (who practice baptism by immersion). 
DUPLEX: 1. (used technically of a device or process) having two parts. 2. allowing communication in opposite directions simultaneously. 
DURAL: of or relating to the dura mater
DURBAN: a port city in eastern South Africa on the Indian Ocean; resort and industrial center
DURBAR: the room in the palace of a native prince of India in which audiences and receptions occur
DURER: a leading German painter and engraver of the Renaissance (1471-1528)
DURESS: compulsory force or threat
DURHAM: 1. a city of north central North Carolina; site of Duke University. 2. English breed of short-horned cattle. 
DURIAN: 1. tree of southeastern Asia having edible oval fruit with a hard spiny rind. 2. huge fruit native to southeastern Asia `smelling like Hell and tasting like Heaven'; seeds are roasted and eaten like nuts. 
DURIO: a genus of tall Asian trees of the family Bombacaceae
DURRA: sorghums of dry regions of Asia and North Africa
DURUM: wheat with hard dark-colored kernels high in gluten and used for bread and pasta; grown especially in southern Russia, North Africa, and northern central North America
DUSE: Italian actress best known for her performances in tragic roles (1858-1924)
DUSK: become dusk
DUSKY: lighted by or as if by twilight
DUST: 1. remove the dust from. 2. cover with a light dusting of a substance. 3. rub the dust over a surface so as to blur the outlines of a shape. 
DUSTER: 1. a loose coverall (coat or frock) reaching down to the ankles. 2. a pitch thrown deliberately close to the batter. 
DUSTY: covered with a layer of dust
DUTCH: 1. of or relating to the Netherlands or its people or culture. 2. the West Germanic language of the Netherlands. 
DUTY: 1. the social force that binds you to the courses of action demanded by that force; every opportunity, an obligation; every possession, a duty"- John D.Rockefeller Jr. 2. work that you are obliged to perform for moral or legal reasons. 3. a government tax on imports or exports. 
DVORAK: Czech composer who combined folk elements with traditional forms (1841-1904)
DWARF: 1. a person who is markedly small. 2. a plant or animal that is atypically small. 3. check the growth of. 
DWELL: 1. originate (in). 2. exist or be situated within. 
EACH: to or from every one of two or more (considered individually)
EAGER: having or showing keen interest or intense desire or impatient expectancy
EAGLE: 1. shoot two strokes under par. 2. shoot in two strokes under par. 3. a former gold coin in the United States worth 10 dollars. 4. an emblem representing power. 
EAGLET: a young eagle
EAR: 1. the sense organ for hearing and equilibrium. 2. good hearing. 3. attention to what is said. 4. fruiting spike of a cereal plant especially corn. 
EARED: having ears (or appendages resembling ears) or having ears of a specified kind; often used in combination
EARFUL: an outpouring of gossip
EARL: a British peer ranking below a marquess and above a viscount
EARLY: 1. at or near the beginning of a period of time or course of events or before the usual or expected time. 2. before the usual time or the time expected. 3. in good time. 4. very young. 5. of an early stage in the development of a language or literature. 6. expected in the near future. 
EARN: acquire or deserve by one's efforts or actions
EARNED: gained or acquired; especially through merit or as a result of effort or action
EARNER: someone who earn wages in return for their labor
EARTH: 1. hide in the earth like a hunted animal. 2. connect to the earth. 3. the abode of mortals (as contrasted with Heaven or Hell). 4. once thought to be one of four elements composing the universe (Empedocles). 
EARTHY: 1. not far removed from or suggestive of nature. 2. hearty and lusty. 3. of or consisting of or resembling earth. 
EARWIG: any of numerous insects of the order Dermaptera having elongate bodies and slender many-jointed antennae and a pair of large pincers at the rear of the abdomen
EASE: 1. move gently or carefully. 2. a freedom from financial difficulty that promotes a comfortable state. 3. freedom from constraint or embarrassment. 
EASEL: an upright tripod for displaying something (usually an artist's canvas)
EASY: 1. posing no difficulty; requiring little effort. 2. not hurried or forced. 3. in a relaxed manner; or without hardship. 4. affording pleasure. 5. having little impact. 6. readily exploited or tricked. 7. marked by moderate steepness. 8. affording comfort. 9. casual and unrestrained in sexual behavior. 10. less in demand and therefore readily obtainable. 11. obtained with little effort or sacrifice, often obtained illegally. 
EASILY: 1. with ease (`easy' is sometimes used informally for `easily'). 2. without question. 
EASING: 1. a change for the better. 2. the act of reducing something unpleasant (as pain or annoyance). 
EAST: 1. to, toward, or in the east. 2. the countries of Asia. 3. the region of the United States lying to the north of the Ohio River and to the east of the Mississippi River. 4. the direction corresponding to the eastward cardinal compass point. 5. a location in the eastern part of a country, region, or city. 
EASTER: a Christian celebration of the Resurrection of Christ; celebrated on the Sunday following the first full moon after the vernal equinox
EAT: 1. take in solid food. 2. eat a meal; take a meal. 3. worry or cause anxiety in a persistent way. 
EATAGE: bulky food like grass or hay for browsing or grazing horses or cattle
EATER: 1. someone who consumes food for nourishment. 2. any green goods that are good to eat. 
EATING: the act of consuming food
EAVES: the overhang at the lower edge of a roof
EBB: 1. flow back or recede. 2. hem in fish with stakes and nets so as to prevent them from going back into the sea with the ebb. 3. fall away or decline. 
EBLIS: (Islam) the principal evil jinni in Islamic mythology
EBON: of a very dark black
EBONY: 1. hard dark-colored heartwood of the ebony tree; used in cabinetwork and for piano keys. 2. tropical tree of southern Asia having hard dark-colored heartwood used in cabinetwork. 
EBRO: a river in northeastern Spain; flows into the Mediterranean
ECARTE: a card game for 2 players; played with 32 cards and king high
ECCLES: Australian physiologist noted for his research on the conduction of impulses by nerve cells (1903-1997)
ECHIUM: a genus of bristly herbs and shrubs of the family Boraginaceae
ECHO: 1. the repetition of a sound resulting from reflection of the sound waves. 2. (Greek mythology) a nymph who was spurned by Narcissus and pined away until only her voice remained. 3. call to mind. 4. a reflected television or radio or radar beam. 5. a close parallel of a feeling, idea, style, etc.. 6. an imitation or repetition. 
ECHOIC: 1. (of words) formed in imitation of a natural sound. 2. like or characteristic of an echo. 
ECK: a German Roman Catholic theologian who was an indefatigable opponent of Martin Luther (1486-1543)
ECLAIR: oblong cream puff
ECLAT: brilliant or conspicuous success or effect
ECZEMA: generic term for inflammatory conditions of the skin; particularly with vesiculation in the acute stages
EDAM: mild yellow Dutch cheese made in balls encased in a red covering
EDDA: either of two distinct works in Old Icelandic dating from the late 13th century and consisting of 34 mythological and heroic ballads composed between 800 and 1200; the primary source for Scandinavian mythology
EDDY: 1. flow in a circular current, of liquids. 2. a miniature whirlpool or whirlwind resulting when the current of a fluid doubles back on itself. 
EDEMA: swelling from excessive accumulation of watery fluid in cells, tissues, or serous cavities
EDEN: 1. any place of complete bliss and delight and peace. 2. a beautiful garden where Adam and Eve were placed at the Creation; when they disobeyed and ate the forbidden fruit from the tree of knowledge of good and evil they were driven from their paradise (the fall of man). 
EDGAR: the younger brother of Edwy who became king of Northumbria when it renounced Edwy; on Edwy's death he succeeded to the throne of England (944-975)
EDGE: 1. advance slowly, as if by inches. 2. a sharp side formed by the intersection of two surfaces of an object. 3. provide with an edge. 4. a slight competitive advantage. 5. the outside limit of an object or area or surface; a place farthest away from the center of something. 
EDGED: 1. having a specified kind of border or edge. 2. having a cutting edge or especially an edge or edges as specified; often used in combination. 
EDGER: 1. a person who puts finishing edges on a garment. 2. garden tool for cutting grass around the edges of a yard. 
EDGY: being in a tense state
EDGING: border consisting of anything placed on the edge to finish something (such as a fringe on clothing or on a rug)
EDIBLE: suitable for use as food
EDICT: a formal or authoritative proclamation
EDIRNE: a city in northwestern Turkey; a Thracian town that was rebuilt and renamed by the Roman Emperor Hadrian
EDISON: United States inventor; inventions included the phonograph and incandescent electric light and the microphone and the Kinetoscope (1847-1931)
EDIT: 1. prepare for publication or presentation by correcting, revising, or adapting. 2. supervise the publication of. 3. cut and assemble the components of. 4. cut or eliminate. 
EDITOR: a person responsible for the editorial aspects of publication; the person who determines the final content of a text (especially of a newspaper or magazine)
EDO: a member of a west African people living in the tropical forest region of southern Nigeria
EDUCE: deduce (a principle) or construe (a meaning)
EDWARD: 1. King of England and Ireland in 1936; his marriage to Wallis Warfield Simpson created a constitutional crisis leading to his abdication (1894-1972). 2. King of England from 1901 to 1910; son of Victoria and Prince Albert; famous for his elegant sporting ways (1841-1910). 3. King of England and Ireland from 1547 to 1553; son of Henry VIII and Jane Seymour; died of tuberculosis (1537-1553). 4. King of England who was crowned at the age of 13 on the death of his father Edward IV but was immediately confined to the Tower of London where he and his younger brother were murdered (1470-1483). 5. King of England from 1461 to 1470 and from 1471 to 1483; was dethroned in 1470 but regained the throne in 1471 by his victory at the battle of Tewkesbury (1442-1483). 6. son of Edward II and King of England from 1327-1377; his claim to the French throne provoked the Hundred Years' War; his reign was marked by an epidemic of the Black Plague and by the emergence of the House of Commons as the powerful arm of British Parliament (1312-1377). 7. King of England from 1307 to 1327 and son of Edward I; was defeated at Bannockburn by the Scots led by Robert the Bruce; was deposed and died in prison (1284-1327). 8. King of England from 1272 to 1307; conquered Wales (1239-1307). 9. third son of Elizabeth II (born in 1964). 10. son of Edward III who defeated the French at Crecy and Poitiers in the Hundred Years' War (1330-1376). 
EDWIN: king of Northumbria who was converted to Christianity (585-633)
EEL: 1. the fatty flesh of eel; an elongate fish found in fresh water in Europe and America; large eels are usually smoked or pickled. 2. voracious snakelike marine or freshwater fishes with smooth slimy usually scaleless skin and having a continuous vertical fin but no ventral fins. 
E'EN: even
EERIE: 1. suggestive of the supernatural; mysterious. 2. inspiring a feeling of fear; strange and frightening. 
EERILY: in an unnatural eery manner
EFFACE: make inconspicuous
EFFECT: 1. an impression (especially one that is artificial or contrived). 2. the central meaning or theme of a speech or literary work. 3. (of a law) having legal validity. 4. a symptom caused by an illness or a drug. 5. produce. 6. act so as to bring into existence. 
EFFIGY: a representation of a person (especially in the form of sculpture)
EFFORT: use of physical or mental energy; hard work
EFFUSE: 1. pour out. 2. give out or emit (also metaphorically). 
EFT: a newt in its terrestrial stage of development
EGBERT: king of Wessex whose military victories made Wessex the most powerful kingdom in England (died in 839)
EGERIA: small genus of dioecious tropical aquatic plants
EGG: 1. throw eggs at. 2. coat with beaten egg. 
EGGAR: moth having nonfunctional mouthparts as adults; larvae feed on tree foliage and spin egg-shaped cocoons
EGGCUP: dishware consisting of a small cup for serving a boiled egg
EGGNOG: a punch made of sweetened milk or cream mixed with eggs and usually alcoholic liquor
EGYPT: a republic in northeastern Africa known as the United Arab Republic until 1971; site of an ancient civilization that flourished from 2600 to 30 BC
EGO: 1. an inflated feeling of pride in your superiority to others. 2. (psychoanalysis) the conscious mind. 
EGOISM: 1. (ethics) the theory that the pursuit of your own welfare in the basis of morality. 2. concern for your own interests and welfare. 
EGRESS: 1. (astronomy) the reappearance of a celestial body after an eclipse. 2. the act of coming (or going) out; becoming apparent. 
EGRET: any of various usually white herons having long plumes during breeding season
EYAS: an unfledged or nestling hawk
EYCK: Flemish painter who was a founder of the Flemish school of painting and who pioneered modern techniques of oil painting (1390-1441)
EIDER: duck of the northern hemisphere much valued for the fine soft down of the females
EIDOS: (anthropology) the distinctive expression of the cognitive or intellectual character of a culture or a social group
EYE: 1. look at. 2. good discernment (either visually or as if visually). 3. attention to what is seen. 4. a small hole or loop (as in a needle). 
EYECUP: a small vessel with a rim curved to fit the orbit of the eye; use to apply medicated or cleansing solution to the eyeball
EYED: having an eye or eyes or eyelike feature especially as specified; often used in combination
EYEFUL: 1. a strikingly beautiful woman. 2. a full view; a good look. 
EYEISH: a member of the Caddo people of northeastern Texas
EYELET: a small hole (usually round and finished around the edges) in cloth or leather for the passage of a cord or hook or bar
EYELID: either of two folds of skin that can be moved to cover or open the eye
EYES: opinion or judgment
EIFFEL: French engineer who constructed the Eiffel Tower (1832-1923)
EIGHT: being one more than seven
EIGHTH: coming next after the seventh and just before the ninth in position
EIGHTY: being ten more than seventy
EYRE: a shallow salt lake in south central Australia about 35 feet below sea level; the largest lake in the country and the lowest point on the continent
EYRIR: 100 aurar equal 1 krona in Iceland
EITHER: after a negative statement used as an intensive meaning something like `likewise' or `also'
EJECT: 1. put out or expel from a place. 2. leave an aircraft rapidly, using an ejection seat or capsule. 
ELAEIS: oil palms
ELAM: an ancient country in southwestern Asia to the east of the Tigris River (in what is modern Iran); was known for its warlike people
ELAN: enthusiastic and assured vigor and liveliness
ELAND: either of two large African antelopes of the genus Taurotragus having short spirally twisted horns in both sexes
ELANUS: a genus of small kites of both Old and New Worlds
ELAPHE: North American rat snakes
ELAPID: any of numerous venomous fanged snakes of warmer parts of both hemispheres
ELAPSE: pass by
ELATE: fill with high spirits; fill with optimism
ELATED: 1. exultantly proud and joyful; in high spirits. 2. full of high-spirited delight. 
ELBE: a river in central Europe that arises in northwestern Czechoslovakia and flows northward through Germany to empty into the North Sea
ELBOW: 1. push one's way with the elbows. 2. shove one's elbow into another person's ribs. 3. a length of pipe with a sharp bend in it. 4. the part of a sleeve that covers the elbow joint. 5. the joint of a mammal or bird that corresponds to the human elbow. 
ELDER: 1. used of the older of two persons of the same name especially used to distinguish a father from his son. 2. any of numerous shrubs or small trees of temperate and subtropical northern hemisphere having white flowers and berrylike fruit. 3. any of various church officers. 
ELECT: 1. selected as the best. 2. elected but not yet installed in office. 
ELEGY: a mournful poem; a lament for the dead
ELEMI: fragrant resin obtain from trees of the family Burseraceae and used as incense
ELEVEN: being one more than ten
ELF: (folklore) fairies that are somewhat mischievous
ELFIN: 1. suggestive of an elf in strangeness and otherworldliness. 2. small and delicate. 3. relating to or made or done by or as if by an elf. 4. usually good-naturedly mischievous. 
ELGAR: British composer of choral and orchestral works including two symphonies as well as songs and chamber music and music for brass band (1857-1934)
ELICIT: derive by reason
ELIDE: leave or strike out
ELIJAH: a Hebrew prophet in the Old Testament who opposed the worship of idols; he was persecuted for rebuking Ahab and Jezebel (king and queen of Israel); he was taken up to heaven in a chariot of fire (circa 9th century BC)
ELYMUS: tall tufted perennial grasses (such as lyme grass or wild rye)
ELITE: a group or class of persons enjoying superior intellectual or social or economic status
ELIXIR: 1. a sweet flavored liquid (usually containing a small amount of alcohol) used in compounding medicines to be taken by mouth in order to mask an unpleasant taste. 2. a substance believed to cure all ills. 
ELK: large northern deer with enormous flattened antlers in the male; called `elk' in Europe and `moose' in North America
ELL: an extension at the end and at right angles to the main building
ELM: 1. any of various trees of the genus Ulmus: important timber or shade trees. 2. hard tough wood of an elm tree; used for e.g. implements and furniture. 
ELMONT: a town on Long Island in New York; site of Belmont Park
ELODEA: submerged freshwater perennials
ELOPE: run away secretly with one's beloved
ELOPS: type genus of the Elopidae: tenpounder
ELUATE: a liquid solution that results from elution
ELUDE: 1. escape, either physically or mentally. 2. be incomprehensible to; escape understanding by. 
ELUL: the twelfth month of the civil year; the sixth month of the ecclesiastical year in the Jewish calendar (in August and September)
ELUTE: wash out with a solvent, as in chromatography
ELVER: 1. young eel; may be sauteed or batter-fried. 2. young eel. 
ELVES: an acronym for emissions of light and very low frequency perturbations due to electromagnetic pulse sources; extremely bright extremely short (less than a msec) electrical flashes forming a huge ring (up to 400 km diameter) in the ionosphere
EMBALM: preserve a dead body
EMBANK: enclose with banks, as for support or protection
EMBARK: 1. go on board. 2. set out on (an enterprise or subject of study). 
EMBED: attach to, as a journalist to a military unit when reporting on a war
EMBER: a hot fragment of wood or coal that is left from a fire and is glowing or smoldering
EMBLEM: 1. special design or visual object representing a quality, type, group, etc.. 2. a visible symbol representing an abstract idea. 
EMBODY: 1. represent, as of a character on stage. 2. represent or express something abstract in tangible form. 
EMBOSS: raise in a relief
EMBRYO: 1. (botany) a minute rudimentary plant contained within a seed or an archegonium. 2. an animal organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that in higher forms merge into fetal stages but in lower forms terminate in commencement of larval life. 
EMCEE: act as a master of ceremonies
EMEND: make improvements or corrections to
EMERGE: 1. come out into view, as from concealment. 2. become known or apparent. 3. come up to the surface of or rise. 
EMERY: a hard grey-black mineral consisting of corundum and either hematite or magnetite; used as an abrasive (especially as a coating on paper)
EMETIC: a medicine that induces nausea and vomiting
EMILE: the boy whose upbringing was described by Jean-Jacques Rousseau
EMILIA: tropical African herbs
EMIR: an independent ruler or chieftain (especially in Africa or Arabia)
EMIT: 1. expel (gases or odors). 2. give off, send forth, or discharge; as of light, heat, or radiation, vapor, etc.. 
EMMER: hard red wheat grown especially in Russia and Germany; in United States as stock feed
EMMY: an annual award by the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences for outstanding achievements in television
EMOTE: give expression or emotion to, in a stage or movie role
EMPIRE: 1. the domain ruled by an emperor or empress; the region over which imperial dominion is exercised. 2. a group of countries under a single authority. 3. a monarchy with an emperor as head of state. 4. an eating apple that somewhat resembles a McIntosh; used as both an eating and a cooking apple. 
EMPTY: 1. holding or containing nothing. 2. devoid of significance or point. 3. emptied of emotion. 4. needing nourishment. 
EMU: large Australian flightless bird similar to the ostrich but smaller
ENABLE: render capable or able for some task
ENACT: act out; represent or perform as if in a play
ENAMEL: 1. coat, inlay, or surface with enamel. 2. a colored glassy compound (opaque or partially opaque) that is fused to the surface of metal or glass or pottery for decoration or protection. 3. a paint that dries to a hard glossy finish. 4. any smooth glossy coating that resembles ceramic glaze. 
ENATE: related on the mother's side
ENCASE: enclose in, or as if in, a case
ENCODE: convert information into code
ENCORE: request an encore, from a performer
END: 1. have an end, in a temporal, spatial, or quantitative sense; either spatial or metaphorical. 2. bring to an end or halt. 3. be the end of; be the last or concluding part of. 4. a final part or section. 5. a final state. 6. the surface at either extremity of a three-dimensional object. 7. (football) the person who plays at one end of the line of scrimmage. 8. a boundary marking the extremities of something. 9. one of two places from which people are communicating to each other. 10. the part you are expected to play. 11. a piece of cloth that is left over after the rest has been used or sold. 12. (American football) a position on the line of scrimmage. 13. put an end to. 
ENDEAR: make attractive or lovable
ENDING: 1. the end of a word (a suffix or inflectional ending or final morpheme). 2. event whose occurrence ends something. 
ENDIVE: widely cultivated herb with leaves valued as salad green; either curly serrated leaves or broad flat ones that are usually blanched
ENDOW: 1. give qualities or abilities to. 2. furnish with an endowment. 
ENEMA: an injection of a liquid through the anus to stimulate evacuation; sometimes used for diagnostic purposes
ENEMY: 1. an opposing military force. 2. an armed adversary (especially a member of an opposing military force). 3. any hostile group of people. 
ENERGY: 1. (physics) a thermodynamic quantity equivalent to the capacity of a physical system to do work; the units of energy are joules or ergs. 2. forceful exertion. 3. enterprising or ambitious drive. 4. an imaginative lively style (especially style of writing). 5. a healthy capacity for vigorous activity. 6. any source of usable power. 
ENESCO: Romanian violinist and composer (1881-1955)
ENGAGE: 1. ask to represent; of legal counsel. 2. get caught. 3. carry on (wars, battles, or campaigns). 4. hire for work or assistance. 5. keep engaged. 
ENGELS: socialist who wrote the Communist Manifesto with Karl Marx in 1848 (1820-1895)
ENGINE: 1. motor that converts thermal energy to mechanical work. 2. something used to achieve a purpose. 3. an instrument or machine that is used in warfare, such as a battering ram, catapult, artillery piece, etc.. 
ENGRAM: a postulated biochemical change (presumably in neural tissue) that represents a memory
ENGULF: flow over or cover completely
ENID: a town in north central Oklahoma
ENJOY: 1. derive or receive pleasure from; get enjoyment from; take pleasure in. 2. have benefit from. 3. have for one's benefit. 
ENJOIN: issue an injunction
ENKI: water god and god of wisdom; counterpart of the Akkadian Ea
ENKIDU: legendary friend of Gilgamish
ENLIL: god of the air and king of the Sumerian gods
ENLIST: 1. join the military. 2. engage somebody to enter the army. 
ENMESH: entangle or catch in (or as if in) a mesh
ENOL: an organic compound that contains a hydroxyl group bonded to a carbon atom which in turn is doubly bonded to another carbon atom
ENOLIC: of or relating to or consisting of enol
ENOSIS: the union of Greece and Cyprus (which is the goal of a group of Greek Cypriots)
ENOUGH: as much as necessary; (`plenty' is nonstandard) "I've had plenty, thanks"
ENOVID: trade name for an oral contraceptive containing mestranol and norethynodrel
ENRAGE: put into a rage; make violently angry
ENRICH: 1. make better or improve in quality. 2. make wealthy or richer. 
ENROBE: 1. provide with a coating. 2. adorn with a robe. 
ENROLL: register formally as a participant or member
ENSETE: Old World tropical herbs: Abyssinian bananas
ENSIGN: 1. a person who holds a commissioned rank in the United States Navy or the United States Coast Guard; below lieutenant junior grade. 2. colors flown by a ship to show its nationality. 
ENSILE: store in a silo
ENSKY: exalt to the skies; lift to the skies or to heaven with praise
ENTAIL: 1. have as a logical consequence. 2. impose, involve, or imply as a necessary accompaniment or result. 
ENTER: 1. to come or go into. 2. become a participant; be involved in. 3. come on stage. 
ENTICE: provoke someone to do something through (often false or exaggerated) promises or persuasion
ENTIRE: 1. constituting the full quantity or extent; complete. 2. (of leaves or petals) having a smooth edge; not broken up into teeth or lobes. 3. (used of domestic animals) sexually competent. 
ENTITY: that which is perceived or known or inferred to have its own distinct existence (living or nonliving)
ENTREE: 1. the principal dish of a meal. 2. the right to enter. 3. the act of entering. 
ENTRY: 1. an item inserted in a written record. 2. a written record of a commercial transaction. 
ENURED: made tough by habitual exposure
ENVY: 1. feel envious towards; admire enviously. 2. be envious of; set one's heart on. 
ENVOY: 1. a diplomat having less authority than an ambassador. 2. a brief stanza concluding certain forms of poetry. 
ENZYME: any of several complex proteins that are produced by cells and act as catalysts in specific biochemical reactions
EOCENE: from 58 million to 40 million years ago; presence of modern mammals
EOLITH: a crude stone artifact (as a chipped flint); possibly the earliest tools
EON: 1. the longest division of geological time. 2. an immeasurably long period of time. 3. (Gnosticism) a divine power or nature emanating from the Supreme Being and playing various roles in the operation of the universe. 
EONIAN: of or relating to a geological eon (longer than an era)
EOSIN: a red fluorescent dye resulting from the action of bromine on fluorescein; used in cosmetics and as a biological stain for studying cell structures
EPARCH: 1. a bishop or metropolitan in charge of an eparchy in the Eastern Church. 2. the governor or prefect of an eparchy in ancient Greece. 
EPEE: a fencing sword similar to a foil but with a heavier blade
EPHAH: an ancient Hebrew unit of dry measure equal to about a bushel
EPIC: 1. very imposing or impressive; surpassing the ordinary (especially in size or scale). 2. constituting or having to do with or suggestive of a literary epic. 
EPIRUS: an ancient area on the Ionian Sea that flourished as a kingdom in the 3rd century BC; located in northwestern Greece and southern Albania
EPOCH: 1. (astronomy) an arbitrarily fixed date that is the point in time relative to which information (as coordinates of a celestial body) is recorded. 2. a unit of geological time that is a subdivision of a period and is itself divided into ages. 
EPONYM: 1. the person for whom something is named. 2. the name derived from a person (real or imaginary). 
EPOS: a body of poetry that conveys the traditions of a society by treating some epic theme
EPOXY: glue with epoxy
EQUAL: 1. having the same quantity, value, or measure as another. 2. be equal to in quality or ability. 3. make equal, uniform, corresponding, or matching. 
EQUATE: be equivalent or parallel, in mathematics
EQUINE: 1. resembling a horse. 2. of or belonging to the family Equidae. 
EQUIP: 1. provide with (something) usually for a specific purpose. 2. provide with abilities or understanding. 
EQUITY: 1. the difference between the market value of a property and the claims held against it. 2. the ownership interest of shareholders in a corporation. 
EQUUS: type genus of the Equidae: only surviving genus of the family Equidae
ERA: 1. a period marked by distinctive character or reckoned from a fixed point or event. 2. a major division of geological time; an era is usually divided into two or more periods. 
ERASE: 1. remove from memory or existence. 2. remove by or as if by rubbing or erasing. 3. wipe out digitally or magnetically recorded information. 
ERASER: an implement used to erase something
ERATO: (Greek mythology) the Muse of lyric and love poetry
ERBIUM: a trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group; occurs with yttrium
EREBUS: (Greek mythology) Greek god of darkness who dwelt in the underworld; son of Chaos; brother of Nox; father of Aether and Day
ERECT: upright in position or posture
ERG: a cgs unit of work or energy; the work done by a force of one dyne acting over a distance of one centimeter
ERGO: (used as a sentence connector) therefore or consequently
ERGOT: 1. a plant disease caused by the ergot fungus. 2. a fungus that infects various cereal plants forming compact black masses of branching filaments that replace many grains of the plant; source of medicinally important alkaloids and of lysergic acid. 
ERICA: any plant of the genus Erica
ERIE: 1. a member of an Iroquoian people formerly living on the south shore of Lake Erie in northern Ohio and northwest Pennsylvania and western New York. 2. a port city on Lake Erie in northwestern Pennsylvania. 
ERIN: an early name of Ireland that is now used in poetry
ERYNGO: any plant of the genus Eryngium
ERLANG: a unit of traffic intensity in a telephone system
ERMINE: 1. the expensive white fur of the ermine. 2. mustelid of northern hemisphere in its white winter coat. 
ERN: bulky greyish-brown eagle with a short wedge-shaped white tail; of Europe and Greenland
ERODE: 1. become ground down or deteriorate. 2. remove soil or rock. 
ERODED: worn away as by water or ice or wind
EROS: (Greek mythology) god of love; son of Aphrodite; identified with Roman Cupid
EROSE: having an irregularly notched or toothed margin as though gnawed
EROTIC: giving sexual pleasure; sexually arousing
ERR: to make a mistake or be incorrect
ERRAND: a short trip that is taken in the performance of a necessary task or mission
ERRANT: 1. straying from the right course or from accepted standards. 2. uncontrolled motion that is irregular or unpredictable. 
ERRING: capable of making an error
ERROR: 1. a misconception resulting from incorrect information. 2. (baseball) a failure of a defensive player to make an out when normal play would have sufficed. 3. departure from what is ethically acceptable. 4. (computer science) the occurrence of an incorrect result produced by a computer. 5. part of a statement that is not correct. 
ERSATZ: artificial and inferior
ERUCA: annual to perennial herbs of the Mediterranean region
ERUPT: 1. start abruptly. 2. erupt or intensify suddenly. 3. start to burn or burst into flames. 4. break out. 5. become active and spew forth lava and rocks. 6. appear on the skin. 7. become raw or open. 
ESAU: (Old Testament) the eldest son of Isaac who would have inherited the covenant that God made with Abraham and that Abraham passed on to Isaac; he traded his birthright to his twin brother Jacob for a mess of pottage
ESCAPE: 1. run away from confinement. 2. an inclination to retreat from unpleasant realities through diversion or fantasy. 3. an avoidance of danger or difficulty. 4. remove oneself from a familiar environment, usually for pleasure or diversion. 5. a plant originally cultivated but now growing wild. 6. issue or leak, as from a small opening. 
ESCHAR: a dry scab formed on the skin following a burn or cauterization of the skin
ESCORT: 1. the act of accompanying someone or something in order to protect them. 2. an attendant who is employed to accompany someone. 3. accompany as an escort. 
ESCROW: a written agreement (or property or money) delivered to a third party or put in trust by one party to a contract to be returned after fulfillment of some condition
ESKER: (geology) a long winding ridge of post glacial gravel and other sediment; deposited by meltwater from glaciers or ice sheets
ESKIMO: 1. a member of a people inhabiting the Arctic (northern Canada or Greenland or Alaska or eastern Siberia); the Algonquians called them Eskimo (`eaters of raw flesh') but they call themselves the Inuit (`the people'). 2. the language spoken by the Eskimo. 
ESOX: type and only genus of the family Esocidae
ESPOO: a city in southern Finland
ESPRIT: liveliness of mind or spirit
ESSAY: 1. an analytic or interpretive literary composition. 2. a tentative attempt. 
ESSEN: a city in western Germany; industrial center of the Ruhr
ESSENE: said of or relating to the Essenes
ESSEX: a county in southeastern England on the North Sea and the Thames estuary
ESTATE: 1. everything you own; all of your assets (whether real property or personal property) and liabilities. 2. extensive landed property (especially in the country) retained by the owner for his own use. 
ESTEEM: the condition of being honored (esteemed or respected or well regarded)
ESTER: formed by reaction between an acid and an alcohol with elimination of water
ESTHER: 1. (Old Testament) a beautiful Jewess chosen by the king of Persia to be his queen; she stopped a plot to massacre all the Jews in Persia (an event celebrated by Jews as the feast of Purim). 2. an Old Testament book telling of a beautiful Jewess who became queen of Persia and saved her people from massacre. 
ESTRUS: applies to nonhuman mammals: a state or period of heightened sexual arousal and activity
ETCH: 1. make an etching of. 2. cause to stand out or be clearly defined or visible. 3. selectively dissolve the surface of (a semiconductor or printed circuit) with a solvent, laser, or stream of electrons. 
ETCHER: someone who etches
ETHANE: a colorless odorless alkane gas used as fuel
ETHER: 1. any of a class of organic compounds that have two hydrocarbon groups linked by an oxygen atom. 2. a medium that was once supposed to fill all space and to support the propagation of electromagnetic waves. 3. a colorless volatile highly inflammable liquid formerly used as an inhalation anesthetic. 
ETHIC: 1. the principles of right and wrong that are accepted by an individual or a social group. 2. a system of principles governing morality and acceptable conduct. 
ETHICS: the philosophical study of moral values and rules
ETHYL: the univalent hydrocarbon radical C2H5 derived from ethane by the removal of one hydrogen atom
ETHNIC: a person who is a member of an ethnic group
ETHOS: (anthropology) the distinctive spirit of a culture or an era
ETYMON: a simple form inferred as the common basis from which related words in several languages can be derived by linguistic processes
ETNA: an inactive volcano in Sicily; last erupted in 1961; the highest volcano in Europe (10,500 feet)
ETUDE: a short composition for a solo instrument; intended as an exercise or to demonstrate technical virtuosity
ETUI: small ornamental ladies' bag for small articles
EUCHRE: a card game similar to ecarte; each player is dealt 5 cards and the player making trump must take 3 tricks to win a hand
EUCLID: Greek geometer (3rd century BC)
EUGENE: 1. Austrian general in the service of the Holy Roman Empire during the War of the Spanish Succession (1663-1736). 2. a city in western Oregon on the Willamette River; site of a university. 
EULER: Swiss mathematician (1707-1783)
EULOGY: a formal expression of praise for someone who has died recently
EUNUCH: a man who has been castrated and is incapable of reproduction
EUPNEA: normal relaxed breathing
EUREKA: a town in northwest California on an arm of the Pacific Ocean
EURO: the basic monetary unit of most members of the European Union (introduced in 1999); in 2002 twelve European nations (Germany, France, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Ireland, Greece, Austria, Finland) adopted the euro as their basic unit of money and abandoned their traditional currencies
EUROPA: the 4th largest of Jupiter's satellites; covered with a smooth shell of frozen water
EUROPE: 1. the 2nd smallest continent (actually a vast peninsula of Eurasia); the British use `Europe' to refer to all of the continent except the British Isles. 2. the nations of the European continent collectively. 
EVADE: 1. practice evasion. 2. use cunning or deceit to escape or avoid. 
EVE: 1. (Old Testament) Adam's wife in Judeo-Christian mythology: the first woman and mother of the human race; God created Eve from Adam's rib and placed Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. 2. the day before. 3. the period immediately before something. 
EVEN: 1. in spite of; notwithstanding. 2. to a greater degree or extent; used with comparisons. 3. used as an intensive especially to indicate something unexpected. 4. to the full extent. 5. occurring at fixed intervals. 
EVENLY: 1. in equal amounts or shares; in a balanced or impartial way. 2. in a level and regular way. 
EVENT: 1. something that happens at a given place and time. 2. a special set of circumstances. 3. a phenomenon located at a single point in space-time; the fundamental observational entity in relativity theory. 
EVER: 1. at any time. 2. (intensifier for adjectives) very. 
EVERY: 1. (used of count nouns) each and all of the members of a group considered singly and without exception. 2. each and all of a series of entities or intervals as specified. 
EVERT: turn inside out; turn the inner surface of outward
EVICT: 1. expel or eject without recourse to legal process. 2. expel from one's property or force to move out by a legal process. 
EVIL: 1. morally bad or wrong. 2. having the nature of vice. 3. the quality of being morally wrong in principle or practice. 
EVOLVE: 1. work out. 2. undergo development or evolution. 
EWE: 1. a member of a people living in southern Benin and Togo and southeastern Ghana. 2. a Kwa language spoken by the Ewe in Ghana and Togo and Benin. 3. female sheep. 
EXACT: marked by strict and particular and complete accordance with fact
EXACTA: a bet that you can pick the first and second finishers in the right order
EXACUM: genus of tropical Asiatic and African plants: especially Persian violets
EXALT: raise in rank, character, or status
EXAMEN: 1. a detailed inspection of your conscience (as done daily by Jesuits). 2. a critical study (as of a writer's work). 
EXARCH: 1. a bishop in one of several Eastern Orthodox Churches in North America. 2. a bishop in eastern Christendom who holds a place below a patriarch but above a metropolitan. 3. a viceroy who governed a large province in the Roman Empire. 
EXCEED: 1. be greater in scope or size than some standard. 2. be superior or better than some standard. 
EXCEL: distinguish oneself
EXCESS: 1. more than is needed, desired, or required. 2. immoderation as a consequence of going beyond sufficient or permitted limits. 
EXCISE: 1. a tax that is measured by the amount of business done (not on property or income from real estate). 2. levy an excise tax on. 3. remove by cutting. 
EXCITE: 1. arouse or elicit a feeling. 2. raise to a higher energy level. 3. produce a magnetic field in. 
EXCUSE: 1. accept an excuse for. 2. grant exemption or release to. 3. serve as a reason or cause or justification of. 4. ask for permission to be released from an engagement. 5. excuse, overlook, or make allowances for; be lenient with. 
EXEMPT: (of persons) freed from or not subject to an obligation or liability (as e.g. taxes) to which others or other things are subject
EXERT: 1. put to use. 2. make a great effort at a mental or physical task. 
EXHALE: 1. expel air. 2. give out (breath or an odor). 
EXILE: 1. a person who is voluntarily absent from home or country. 2. a person who is expelled from home or country by authority. 3. the act of expelling a person from their native land. 
EXILIC: of or relating to a period of exile (especially the exile of the Jews known as the Babylonian Captivity)
EXIST: 1. have an existence, be extant. 2. support oneself. 
EXIT: 1. move out of or depart from. 2. the act of going out. 3. lose the lead. 
EXMOOR: 1. horned sheep of Devon; valued for mutton. 2. stocky breed of pony with a fawn-colored nose. 
EXODE: a farcical afterpiece in the ancient Roman theater
EXODUS: 1. a journey by a large group to escape from a hostile environment. 2. the second book of the Old Testament: tells of the departure of the Israelites out of slavery in Egypt led by Moses; God gave them the Ten Commandments and the rest of Mosaic law on Mount Sinai during the Exodus. 
EXON: sequence of a gene's DNA that transcribes into protein structures
EXOTIC: strikingly strange or unusual
EXPAND: 1. extend in one or more directions. 2. become larger in size or volume or quantity. 3. make bigger or wider in size, volume, or quantity. 
EXPECT: 1. regard something as probable or likely. 2. look forward to the probable occurrence of. 3. consider reasonable or due. 4. look forward to the birth of a child. 
EXPEL: force to leave or move out
EXPERT: a person with special knowledge or ability who performs skillfully
EXPORT: 1. sell or transfer abroad. 2. transfer (electronic data) out of a database or document in a format that can be used by other programs. 3. cause to spread in another part of the world. 
EXPOSE: 1. expose or make accessible to some action or influence. 2. to show, make visible or apparent. 3. expose to light, of photographic film. 4. abandon by leaving out in the open air. 
EXSERT: thrust or extend out
EXTANT: still in existence; not extinct or destroyed or lost
EXTEND: 1. make available; provide. 2. reach outward in space. 3. expand the influence of. 4. open or straighten out; unbend. 5. prolong the time allowed for payment of. 6. increase in quantity or bulk by adding a cheaper substance. 
EXTENT: 1. the point or degree to which something extends. 2. the distance or area or volume over which something extends. 
EXTERN: a nonresident doctor or medical student; connected with a hospital but not living there
EXTORT: 1. obtain through intimidation. 2. obtain by coercion or intimidation. 3. get or cause to become in a difficult or laborious manner. 
EXTRA: 1. added to a regular schedule. 2. further or added. 3. unusually or exceptionally. 
EXUDE: 1. release (a liquid) in drops or small quantities. 2. make apparent by one's mood or behavior. 
EXULT: feel extreme happiness or elation
EZRA: 1. a Jewish priest and scribe sent by the Persian king to restore Jewish law and worship in Jerusalem. 2. an Old Testament book telling of a rabbi's efforts in the 5th century BC to reconstitute Jewish law and worship in Jerusalem after the Babylonian Captivity. 
FABIAN: 1. of or relating to Fabianism. 2. using cautious slow strategy to wear down opposition; avoiding direct confrontation. 
FABLE: a short moral story (often with animal characters)
FABLED: celebrated in fable or legend
FABRIC: artifact made by weaving or felting or knitting or crocheting natural or synthetic fibers
FACADE: 1. the face or front of a building. 2. a showy misrepresentation intended to conceal something unpleasant. 
FACE: 1. the front of the human head from the forehead to the chin and ear to ear. 2. the general outward appearance of something. 3. be opposite. 4. turn so as to face; turn the face in a certain direction. 5. turn so as to expose the face. 6. line the edge (of a garment) with a different material. 7. status in the eyes of others. 8. a vertical surface of a building or cliff. 9. cover the front or surface of. 
FACED: having a face or facing especially of a specified kind or number; often used in combination
FACER: (a dated Briticism) a serious difficulty with which one is suddenly faced
FACET: a smooth surface (as of a bone or cut gemstone)
FACIAL: 1. of or concerning the face. 2. of or pertaining to the outside surface of an object. 
FACILE: 1. arrived at without due care or effort; lacking depth. 2. performing adroitly and without effort. 
FACING: 1. a lining applied to the edge of a garment for ornamentation or strengthening. 2. an ornamental coating to a building. 3. a protective covering that protects the outside of a building. 
FACT: 1. a piece of information about circumstances that exist or events that have occurred. 2. a statement or assertion of verified information about something that is the case or has happened. 3. an event known to have happened or something known to have existed. 4. a concept whose truth can be proved. 
FACTOR: 1. resolve into factors. 2. any of the numbers (or symbols) that form a product when multiplied together. 3. an independent variable in statistics. 4. be a contributing factor. 5. consider as relevant when making a decision. 
FACULA: 1. a bright spot on a planet. 2. a large bright spot on the sun's photosphere occurring most frequently in the vicinity of sunspots. 
FAD: an interest followed with exaggerated zeal
FADE: 1. lose freshness, vigor, or vitality. 2. become less clearly visible or distinguishable; disappear gradually or seemingly. 
FADO: a sad Portuguese folksong
FAECAL: of or relating to feces
FAFNIR: (Norse mythology) the Norse dragon that guarded a treasure and was slain by Sigurd
FAG: act as a servant for older boys, in British public schools
FAGGOT: 1. ornament or join (fabric) by faggot stitch. 2. fasten together rods of iron in order to heat or weld them. 3. bind or tie up in or as if in a faggot. 
FAGIN: a villainous Jew in a novel by Charles Dickens
FAGOT: 1. offensive term for an openly homosexual man. 2. a bundle of sticks and branches bound together. 
FAGUS: beeches
FAIL: 1. fail to do something; leave something undone. 2. be unsuccessful. 3. disappoint, prove undependable to; abandon, forsake. 4. stop operating or functioning. 5. be unable. 6. judge unacceptable. 7. fail to get a passing grade. 8. fall short in what is expected. 9. become bankrupt or insolvent; fail financially and close. 10. prove insufficient. 11. get worse. 
FAILLE: a ribbed woven fabric of silk or rayon or cotton
FAINT: 1. deficient in magnitude; barely perceptible; lacking clarity or brightness or loudness etc. 2. lacking strength or vigor. 3. weak and likely to lose consciousness. 4. indistinctly understood or felt or perceived. 5. lacking conviction or boldness or courage. 
FAIR: 1. not excessive or extreme. 2. a competitive exhibition of farm products. 3. free from favoritism or self-interest or bias or deception; conforming with established standards or rules. 4. (of a baseball) hit between the foul lines. 5. attractively feminine. 6. free of clouds or rain. 7. (used of hair or skin) pale or light-colored; . 
FAIRY: a small being, human in form, playful and having magical powers
FAIRLY: 1. without favoring one party, in a fair evenhanded manner. 2. in conformity with the rules or laws and without fraud or cheating. 
FAITH: 1. complete confidence in a person or plan etc. 2. loyalty or allegiance to a cause or a person. 
FAKE: 1. something that is a counterfeit; not what it seems to be. 2. not genuine or real; being an imitation of the genuine article; it's real synthetic fur". 
FAKERY: the act of faking (or the product of faking)
FAKIR: a Muslim or Hindu mendicant monk who is regarded as a holy man
FALCO: a genus of Falconidae
FALCON: hunt with falcons
FALL: 1. descend in free fall under the influence of gravity. 2. pass suddenly and passively into a state of body or mind. 3. a lapse into sin; a loss of innocence or of chastity. 4. suffer defeat, failure, or ruin. 5. die, as in battle or in a hunt. 6. occur at a specified time or place. 7. come under, be classified or included. 8. touch or seem as if touching visually or audibly. 9. be captured. 10. yield to temptation or sin. 11. lose office or power. 12. to be given by assignment or distribution. 13. move in a specified direction. 14. be due. 15. lose one's chastity. 16. to be given by right or inheritance. 17. fall to somebody by assignment or lot. 18. be inherited by. 19. slope downward. 20. lose an upright position suddenly. 21. drop oneself to a lower or less erect position. 22. assume a disappointed or sad expression. 23. be cast down. 24. come out; issue. 25. be born, used chiefly of lambs. 26. begin vigorously. 27. go as if by falling. 28. come as if by falling. 
FALLEN: 1. having dropped by the force of gravity. 2. having fallen in or collapsed. 3. having lost your chastity. 4. killed in battle. 
FALLER: a person who falls
FALLOW: 1. left unplowed and unseeded during a growing season. 2. undeveloped but potentially useful. 
FALLS: the petals or sepals of a flower that bend downward (especially the outer perianth of an iris)
FALSIE: padding that is worn inside a brassiere
FALTER: 1. be unsure or weak. 2. move hesitatingly, as if about to give way. 
FAME: 1. the state or quality of being widely honored and acclaimed. 2. favorable public reputation. 
FAMILY: 1. a social unit living together. 2. primary social group; parents and children. 3. people descended from a common ancestor. 4. (biology) a taxonomic group containing one or more genera. 5. an association of people who share common beliefs or activities. 
FAMINE: a severe shortage of food (as through crop failure) resulting in violent hunger and starvation and death
FAN: 1. strike out (a batter), (of a pitcher). 2. agitate the air. 3. make (an emotion) fiercer. 
FANCY: 1. have a fancy or particular liking or desire for. 2. not plain; decorative or ornamented. 
FANDOM: the fans of a sport or famous person
FANG: 1. a Bantu language spoken in Cameroon. 2. an appendage of insects that is capable of injecting venom; usually evolved from the legs. 3. canine tooth of a carnivorous animal; used to seize and tear its prey. 4. hollow or grooved tooth of a venomous snake; used to inject its poison. 
FANGED: having fangs
FANION: a small flag used by surveyors or soldiers to mark a position
FANJET: 1. an airplane propelled by a fanjet engine. 2. a jet engine in which a fan driven by a turbine provides extra air to the burner and gives extra thrust. 
FANNED: especially spread in a fan shape
FAQ: a list of questions that are frequently asked (about a given topic) along with their answers
FAR: 1. to a considerable degree; very much. 2. at or to or from a great distance in space. 3. at or to a certain point or degree. 4. remote in time. 5. to an advanced stage or point. 
FARAD: the capacitance of a capacitor that has an equal and opposite charge of 1 coulomb on each plate and a voltage difference of 1 volt between the plates
FARCE: fill with a stuffing while cooking
FARDEL: a burden (figuratively in the form of a bundle)
FARE: 1. eat well. 2. a paying (taxi) passenger. 3. the food and drink that are regularly served or consumed. 
FARGO: largest city in North Dakota; located in eastern North Dakota on the Red river
FARINA: fine meal made from cereal grain especially wheat; often used as a cooked cereal or in puddings
FARM: 1. be a farmer; work as a farmer. 2. collect fees or profits. 
FARMER: 1. a person who operates a farm. 2. United States civil rights leader who in 1942 founded the Congress of Racial Equality (born in 1920). 3. an expert on cooking whose cookbook has undergone many editions (1857-1915). 
FARO: a card game in which players bet against the dealer on the cards he will draw from a dealing box
FARROW: give birth
FARSI: a person of Iranian descent
FART: expel intestinal gases through the anus
FASCES: bundle of rods containing an axe with the blade protruding; in ancient Rome it was a symbol of a magistrate's power; in modern Italy it is a symbol of fascism
FASCIA: a sheet or band of fibrous connective tissue separating or binding together muscles and organs etc
FAST: 1. quickly or rapidly (often used as a combining form). 2. firmly or closely. 3. at a rapid tempo. 4. (of surfaces) conducive to rapid speeds. 5. resistant to destruction or fading. 6. securely fixed in place. 7. (of a photographic lens or emulsion) causing a shortening of exposure time. 
FASTEN: 1. cause to be firmly attached. 2. become fixed or fastened. 3. attach to. 
FAT: 1. having an (over)abundance of flesh. 2. having a relatively large diameter. 3. lucrative. 4. marked by great fruitfulness. 
FATAL: 1. bringing death. 2. controlled or decreed by fate; predetermined. 
FATHER: 1. a male parent (also used as a term of address to your father). 2. `Father' is a term of address for priests in some churches (especially the Roman Catholic Church or the Orthodox Catholic Church); `Padre' is frequently used in the military. 3. a person who holds an important or distinguished position in some organization. 4. God when considered as the first person in the Trinity. 
FATHOM: 1. a linear unit of measurement (equal to 6 feet) for water depth. 2. measure the depth of (a body of water) with a sounding line. 
FATIHA: the first or opening sura of the Quran which is the central prayer of Islam and is used on all special occasions as well as during the five daily prayers
FATIMA: youngest daughter of the prophet Mohammed and wife of the fourth calif Ali; revered especially by Shiite Muslims (606-632)
FATSO: a rotund individual
FATTEN: make fat or plump
FATTY: containing or composed of fat
FATWA: a ruling on a point of Islamic law that is given by a recognized authority
FAUCAL: of or relating to the fauces
FAUCES: the passage between the back of the mouth and the pharynx
FAUCET: a regulator for controlling the flow of a liquid from a reservoir
FAULD: a piece of armor plate below the breastplate
FAULT: 1. (geology) a crack in the earth's crust resulting from the displacement of one side with respect to the other. 2. (electronics) equipment failure attributable to some defect in a circuit (loose connection or insulation failure or short circuit etc.). 3. responsibility for a bad situation or event. 4. (sports) a serve that is illegal (e.g., that lands outside the prescribed area). 
FAULTY: characterized by errors; not agreeing with a model or not following established rules; the wrong side of the road"
FAUN: ancient Italian deity in human shape, with horns, pointed ears and a goat's tail; equivalent to Greek satyr
FAUNA: all the animal life in a particular region or period
FAUNUS: (Roman mythology) ancient rural deity; later considered a counterpart of Greek Pan
FAUST: an alchemist of German legend who sold his soul to Mephistopheles in exchange for knowledge
FAUVE: a member of a group of French painters who followed fauvism
FAVISM: anemia resulting from eating fava beans; victims have an inherited blood abnormality and enzyme deficiency
FAVOR: 1. an act of gracious kindness. 2. consider as the favorite. 3. treat gently or carefully. 4. a feeling of favorable regard. 
FAVUS: a contagious fungal infection of the scalp; occurs mainly in Africa and the Middle East
FAWKES: English conspirator who was executed for his role in a plot to blow up James I and the Houses of Parliament (1570-1606)
FAWN: 1. try to gain favor by cringing or flattering. 2. show submission or fear. 3. have fawns. 
FAX: send something via a facsimile machine
FAZE: disturb the composure of
FEAR: 1. be afraid or feel anxious or apprehensive about a possible or probable situation or event. 2. be sorry; used to introduce an unpleasant statement. 3. be afraid or scared of; be frightened of. 4. be uneasy or apprehensive about. 
FEAST: 1. provide a feast or banquet for. 2. partake in a feast or banquet. 
FEAT: a notable achievement
FECULA: excreta (especially of insects)
FECUND: 1. capable of producing offspring or vegetation. 2. intellectually productive. 
FEDORA: a hat made of felt with a creased crown
FEE: 1. a fixed charge for a privilege or for professional services. 2. an interest in land capable of being inherited. 
FEEBLE: 1. pathetically lacking in force or effectiveness. 2. lacking strength. 
FEEBLY: 1. in a faint and feeble manner. 2. in a halting and feeble manner. 
FEED: 1. provide as food. 2. give food to. 3. feed into; supply. 4. introduce continuously. 5. support or promote. 6. take in food; used of animals only. 7. serve as food for; be the food for. 8. gratify. 
FEEDER: 1. an animal being fattened or suitable for fattening. 2. a branch that flows into the main stream. 3. an animal that feeds on a particular source of food. 
FEEL: 1. undergo an emotional sensation or be in a particular state of mind. 2. be conscious of a physical, mental, or emotional state. 3. perceive by a physical sensation, e.g., coming from the skin or muscles. 4. have a feeling or perception about oneself in reaction to someone's behavior or attitude. 5. undergo passive experience of:"We felt the effects of inflation". 6. be felt or perceived in a certain way. 7. grope or feel in search of something. 8. examine by touch. 9. find by testing or cautious exploration. 10. produce a certain impression. 11. pass one's hands over the sexual organs of. 
FEY: slightly insane
FEIGN: make believe with the intent to deceive
FEIJOA: 1. South American shrub having edible greenish plumlike fruit. 2. dark-green kiwi-sized tropical fruit with white flesh; used chiefly for jellies and preserves. 
FEINT: deceive by a mock action
FEIST: a nervous belligerent little mongrel dog
FEISTY: showing courage
FELINE: of or relating to cats
FELIS: type genus of the Felidae: true cats and most wildcats
FELL: 1. seam made by turning under or folding together and stitching the seamed materials to avoid rough edges. 2. sew a seam by folding the edges. 3. cause to fall by or as if by delivering a blow. 
FELLAH: an agricultural laborer in Arab countries
FELLOE: rim (or part of the rim) into which spokes are inserted
FELLOW: 1. a member of a learned society. 2. an informal form of address for a man. 
FELON: a purulent infection at the end of a finger or toe in the area surrounding the nail
FELONY: a serious crime (such as murder or arson)
FELT: 1. mat together and make felt-like. 2. cover with felt. 3. change texture so as to become matted and felt-like. 
FELTED: made by combining fibers with a binder using heat and pressure
FEMALE: 1. being the sex (of plant or animal) that produces fertilizable gametes (ova) from which offspring develop. 2. characteristic of or peculiar to a woman. 3. for or pertaining to or composed of women or girls. 
FEMUR: the longest and thickest bone of the human skeleton; extends from the pelvis to the knee
FEN: 100 fen equal 1 yuan in China
FENCE: 1. enclose with a fence. 2. receive stolen goods. 3. fight with fencing swords. 
FENCER: someone skilled at fencing
FEND: try to manage without help
FENDER: 1. a barrier that surrounds the wheels of a vehicle to block splashing water or mud. 2. an inclined metal frame at the front of a locomotive to clear the track. 3. a low metal guard to confine falling coals to a hearth. 
FENNEL: 1. any of several aromatic herbs having edible seeds and leaves and stems. 2. aromatic bulbous stem base eaten cooked or raw in salads. 3. leaves used for seasoning. 4. fennel seeds are ground and used as a spice or as an ingredient of a spice mixture. 
FENRIR: (Norse mythology) an enormous wolf that was fathered by Loki and that killed Odin
FEOSOL: trade name of a drug rich in iron; used to treat some kinds of anemia
FERAL: wild and menacing
FERIA: 1. a weekday on which no festival or holiday is celebrated. 2. (in Spanish speaking regions) a local festival or fair, usually in honor of some patron saint. 
FERIAL: of or relating to or being a feria
FERMAT: French mathematician who founded number theory; contributed (with Pascal) to the theory of probability (1601-1665)
FERN: any of numerous flowerless and seedless vascular plants having true roots from a rhizome and fronds that uncurl upward; reproduce by spores
FERNED: abounding in or covered with ferns
FERRET: 1. hunt with ferrets. 2. hound or harry relentlessly. 
FERRY: 1. transport from one place to another. 2. transport by ferry. 3. travel by ferry. 
FERRIC: of or relating to or containing iron
FERULE: a switch (a stick or cane or flat paddle) used to punish children
FESCUE: grass with wide flat leaves cultivated in Europe and America for permanent pasture and hay and for lawns
FESSE: (heraldry) an ordinary consisting of a broad horizontal band across a shield
FESTER: ripen and generate pus
FETAL: of or relating to a fetus
FETCH: 1. the action of fetching. 2. be sold for a certain price. 3. take away or remove. 
FETE: an elaborate party (often outdoors)
FETID: offensively malodorous
FETISH: 1. a form of sexual desire in which gratification depends to an abnormal degree on some object or item of clothing or part of the body. 2. excessive or irrational devotion to some activity. 
FETTER: restrain with fetters
FETTLE: remove mold marks or sand from (a casting)
FETUS: an unborn or unhatched vertebrate in the later stages of development showing the main recognizable features of the mature animal
FEUD: carry out a feud
FEUDAL: of or relating to or characteristic of feudalism
FEVER: 1. a rise in the temperature of the body; frequently a symptom of infection. 2. intense nervous anticipation. 
FEW: a quantifier that can be used with count nouns and is often preceded by `a'; a small but indefinite number
FEWER: (comparative of `few' used with count nouns) quantifier meaning a smaller number of
FEWEST: (superlative of `few' used with count nouns and usually preceded by `the') quantifier meaning the smallest in number
FEZ: 1. a city in north central Morocco; religious center. 2. a felt cap (usually red) for a man; shaped like a flat-topped cone with a tassel that hangs from the crown. 
FIANCE: a man who is engaged to be married
FIB: tell a relatively insignificant lie
FIBER: 1. a slender and greatly elongated substance capable of being spun into yarn. 2. any of several elongated, threadlike cells (especially a muscle fiber or a nerve fiber). 3. a leatherlike material made by compressing layers of paper or cloth. 
FIBRIL: a very slender natural or synthetic fiber
FIBRIN: a white insoluble fibrous protein formed by the action of thrombin on fibrinogen when blood clots; it forms a network that traps red cells and platelets
FIBULA: the outer and thinner of the two bones of the human leg between the knee and ankle
FICA: a tax on employees and employers that is used to fund the Social Security system
FICHU: a lightweight triangular scarf worn by a woman
FICKLE: marked by erratic changeableness in affections or attachments
FICUS: large genus of tropical trees or shrubs or climbers including fig trees
FIDDLE: 1. avoid (one's assigned duties). 2. commit fraud and steal from one's employer. 3. play the violin or fiddle. 4. play on a violin. 
FIDGET: move restlessly
FIEF: a piece of land held under the feudal system
FIELD: 1. catch or pick up (balls) in baseball or cricket. 2. answer adequately or successfully. 3. the space around a radiating body within which its electromagnetic oscillations can exert force on another similar body not in contact with it. 4. a particular kind of commercial enterprise. 5. (mathematics) a set of elements such that addition and multiplication are commutative and associative and multiplication is distributive over addition and there are two elements 0 and 1. 6. a region in which active military operations are in progress. 7. all of the horses in a particular horse race. 8. all the competitors in a particular contest or sporting event. 9. a geographic region (land or sea) under which something valuable is found. 10. (computer science) a set of one or more adjacent characters comprising a unit of information. 11. the area that is visible (as through an optical instrument). 12. play as a fielder. 13. select (a team or individual player) for a game. 
FIERCE: marked by extreme intensity of emotions or convictions; inclined to react violently; fervid
FIERY: 1. like or suggestive of fire. 2. very intense. 
FIFE: a small high-pitched flute similar to a piccolo; has a shrill tone and is used chiefly to accompany drums in a marching band
FIFTH: 1. coming next after the fourth and just before the sixth in position. 2. position five in a countable series of things. 3. the musical interval between one note and another five notes away from it. 
FIFTY: being ten more than forty
FIG: 1. Mediterranean tree widely cultivated for its edible fruit. 2. fleshy sweet pear-shaped yellowish or purple multiple fruit eaten fresh or preserved or dried. 
FIGHT: 1. fight against or resist strongly. 2. an intense verbal dispute. 3. a boxing or wrestling match. 4. make a strenuous or labored effort. 
FIGURE: 1. a diagram or picture illustrating textual material. 2. a model of a bodily form (especially of a person). 3. a combination of points and lines and planes that form a visible palpable shape. 4. an amount of money expressed numerically. 5. the impression produced by a person. 6. a unitary percept having structure and coherence that is the object of attention and that stands out against a ground. 7. a predetermined set of movements in dancing or skating. 8. be or play a part of or in. 9. understand. 
FIJI: an independent state within the British Commonwealth located on the Fiji Islands
FIJIAN: 1. of or relating to Fiji or its people or language or culture. 2. the Oceanic language spoken on Fiji. 
FILAR: related to or having filaments (especially across a field of view as in the eyepiece of a telescope)
FILE: 1. record in a public office or in a court of law. 2. smooth with a file. 3. proceed in line. 4. a steel hand tool with small sharp teeth on some or all of its surfaces; used for smoothing wood or metal. 5. place in a container for keeping records. 
FILER: a party who files a notice with a law court
FILET: lace having a square mesh
FILIAL: 1. designating the generation or the sequence of generations following the parental generation. 2. relating to or characteristic of or befitting an offspring. 
FILING: 1. the entering of a legal document into the public record. 2. a fragment rubbed off by the use of a file. 3. the act of using a file (as in shaping or smoothing an object). 4. preservation and methodical arrangement as of documents and papers etc.. 
FILL: 1. make full, also in a metaphorical sense. 2. become full. 3. assume, as of positions or roles. 4. appoint someone to (a position or a job). 5. plug with a substance. 
FILLED: 1. (usually followed by `with' or used as a combining form) generously supplied with. 2. of purchase orders that have been filled. 3. (of time) taken up. 
FILLER: 1. used for filling cracks or holes in a surface. 2. 100 filler equal 1 forint in Hungary. 3. copy to fill space between more important articles in the layout of a magazine or newspaper. 4. the tobacco used to form the core of a cigar. 
FILLET: 1. decorate with a lace of geometric designs. 2. cut into filets. 3. fastener consisting of a narrow strip of welded metal used to join steel members. 
FILLY: a young female horse under the age of four
FILM: 1. record in film. 2. photographic material consisting of a base of celluloid covered with a photographic emulsion; used to make negatives or transparencies. 3. a thin coating or layer. 4. a thin sheet of (usually plastic and usually transparent) material used to wrap or cover things. 5. make a film or photograph of something. 
FILMED: recorded on film; made into a movie
FILS: a fractional monetary unit in Bahrain and Iraq and Jordan and Kuwait; equal to one thousandth of a dinar
FILTER: 1. remove by passing through a filter. 2. an electrical device that alters the frequency spectrum of signals passing through it. 
FILTH: 1. any substance considered disgustingly foul or unpleasant. 2. a state characterized by foul or disgusting dirt and refuse. 
FILTHY: disgustingly dirty; filled or smeared with offensive matter
FIN: 1. a stabilizer on a ship that resembles the fin of a fish. 2. organ of locomotion and balance in fishes and some other aquatic animals. 3. equip (a car) with fins. 4. propel oneself through the water in a finning motion. 5. show the fins above the water while swimming. 
FINAL: 1. the final match between the winners of all previous matches in an elimination tournament. 2. conclusive in a process or progression. 3. not to be altered or undone. 
FINALE: 1. the closing section of a musical composition. 2. the concluding part of any performance. 
FINCH: any of numerous small songbirds with short stout bills adapted for crushing seeds
FIND: 1. come upon, as if by accident; meet with. 2. come upon after searching; find the location of something that was missed or lost. 3. come to believe on the basis of emotion, intuitions, or indefinite grounds. 4. obtain through effort or management. 5. perceive oneself to be in a certain condition or place. 6. succeed in reaching; arrive at. 
FINDER: 1. someone who comes upon something after searching. 2. someone who is the first to observe something. 3. optical device that helps a user to find the target of interest. 
FINE: 1. money extracted as a penalty. 2. minutely precise especially in differences in meaning. 3. thin in thickness or diameter. 4. characterized by elegance or refinement or accomplishment. 5. of textures that are smooth to the touch or substances consisting of relatively small particles. 6. free from impurities; having a high or specified degree of purity. 
FINELY: 1. in tiny pieces. 2. in an elegant manner. 3. in a delicate manner. 
FINER: (comparative of `fine') greater in quality or excellence
FINERY: elaborate or showy attire and accessories
FINGER: 1. feel or handle with the fingers. 2. the length of breadth of a finger used as a linear measure. 3. search for on the computer. 4. indicate the fingering for the playing of musical scores for keyboard instruments. 
FINIAL: an ornament at the top of a spire or gable; usually a foliated fleur-de-lis
FINISH: 1. provide with a finish. 2. designated event that concludes a contest (especially a race). 3. cause to finish a relationship with somebody. 4. (wine tasting) the taste of a wine on the back of the tongue (as it is swallowed). 5. the act of finishing. 
FINITE: 1. bounded or limited in magnitude or spatial or temporal extent. 2. of verbs; relating to forms of the verb that are limited in time by a tense and (usually) show agreement with number and person. 
FINK: take the place of work of someone on strike
FINN: a native or inhabitant of Finland
FIPPLE: a wooden plug forming a flue pipe (as the mouthpiece of a recorder)
FIR: 1. nonresinous wood of a fir tree. 2. any of various evergreen trees of the genus Abies; chiefly of upland areas. 
FIRE: 1. the event of something burning (often destructive). 2. cause to go off. 3. bake in a kiln so as to harden. 4. a fireplace in which a relatively small fire is burning. 5. go off or discharge. 6. fuel that is burning and is used as a means for cooking. 7. a severe trial. 8. intense adverse criticism. 9. drive out or away by or as if by fire. 
FIRKIN: 1. a British unit of capacity equal to 9 imperial gallons. 2. a small wooden keg. 
FIRM: 1. with resolute determination. 2. not soft or yielding to pressure. 3. strong and sure. 4. not subject to revision or change. 5. (of especially a person's physical features) not shaking or trembling. 6. not liable to fluctuate or especially to fall. 7. securely established. 8. possessing the tone and resiliency of healthy tissue. 9. unwavering in devotion to friend or vow or cause. 
FIRST: 1. before anything else. 2. the initial time. 3. ranking above all others. 4. highest in pitch or chief among parts or voices or instruments or orchestra sections. 5. before another in time, space, or importance. 
FIRTH: 1. English linguist who contributed to linguistic semantics and to prosodic phonology and who was noted for his insistence on studying both sound and meaning in context (1890-1960). 2. a long narrow estuary (especially in Scotland). 
FISC: a state treasury or exchequer or a royal treasury; originally the public treasury of Rome or the emperor's private purse
FISCAL: involving financial matters
FISH: 1. seek indirectly. 2. catch or try to catch fish or shellfish. 
FISHER: large dark brown North American arboreal carnivorous mammal
FISHY: 1. of or relating to or resembling fish. 2. not as expected. 
FIST: a hand with the fingers clenched in the palm (as for hitting)
FIT: 1. meeting adequate standards for a purpose. 2. physically and mentally sound or healthy. 3. (usually followed by `to' or `for') on the point of or strongly disposed. 4. make fit. 5. insert or adjust several objects or people. 6. conform to some shape or size. 
FITFUL: 1. occurring in spells and often abruptly. 2. intermittently stopping and starting. 
FITTED: being the right size and shape to fit as desired
FITTER: improved in health or physical condition
FIVE: being one more than four
FIVER: a United States bill worth 5 dollars
FIVES: a game resembling handball; played on a court with a front wall and two side walls
FIX: 1. informal terms for a difficult situation. 2. something craved, especially an intravenous injection of a narcotic drug. 3. an exemption granted after influence (e.g., money) is brought to bear. 4. set or place definitely. 5. kill, preserve, and harden (tissue) in order to prepare for microscopic study. 6. influence an event or its outcome by illegal means. 7. make ready or suitable or equip in advance for a particular purpose or for some use, event, etc. 
FIXATE: 1. attach (oneself) to a person or thing in a neurotic way. 2. pay attention to exclusively and obsessively. 3. make fixed, stable or stationary. 4. become fixed (on). 
FIXED: 1. (of a number) having a fixed and unchanging value. 2. fixed and unmoving. 3. securely placed or fastened or set. 4. incapable of being changed or moved or undone; e.g. "frozen prices". 
FIXER: someone who intervenes with authorities for a person in trouble (usually using underhand or illegal methods for a fee)
FIZGIG: a firework that fizzes as it moves
FIZZ: an effervescent beverage (usually alcoholic)
FJORD: a long narrow inlet of the sea between steep cliffs; common in Norway
FLAB: loose or flaccid body fat
FLAG: 1. communicate or signal with a flag. 2. decorate with flags. 3. stratified stone that splits into pieces suitable as paving stones. 4. a conspicuously marked or shaped tail. 5. provide with a flag. 
FLAGON: a large metal or pottery vessel with a handle and spout; used to hold alcoholic beverages (usually wine)
FLAY: strip the skin off
FLAIL: 1. an implement consisting of handle with a free swinging stick at the end; used in manual threshing. 2. move like a flail; thresh about. 
FLAIR: a natural talent
FLAKE: 1. form into flakes. 2. cover with flakes or as if with flakes. 
FLAKY: 1. made of or resembling flakes. 2. made of or easily forming flakes. 
FLAMBE: pour liquor over and ignite (a dish)
FLAME: 1. be in flames or aflame. 2. criticize harshly, usually via an electronic medium. 
FLAMEN: a priest who served a particular deity in ancient Rome
FLAN: open pastry filled with fruit or custard
FLANGE: a projection used for strength or for attaching to another object
FLANK: 1. be located at the sides of something or somebody. 2. a subfigure consisting of a side of something. 3. a cut from the fleshy part of an animal's side between the ribs and the leg. 4. the side between ribs and hipbone. 
FLAP: 1. any broad thin and limber covering attached at one edge; hangs loose or projects freely. 2. the motion made by flapping up and down. 3. a movable piece of tissue partly connected to the body. 4. a movable airfoil that is part of an aircraft wing; used to increase lift or drag. 5. move noisily. 6. pronounce with a flap, of alveolar sounds. 
FLARE: 1. burn brightly. 2. a sudden burst of flame. 3. shine with a sudden light. 4. reddening of the skin spreading outward from a focus of infection or irritation. 5. a sudden recurrence or worsening of symptoms. 6. am unwanted reflection in an optical system (or the fogging of an image that is caused by such a reflection). 7. a sudden outburst of emotion. 8. a device that produces a bright light for warning or illumination or identification. 9. (baseball) a fly ball hit a short distance into the outfield. 
FLASH: 1. gleam or glow intermittently. 2. appear briefly. 3. a short vivid experience. 4. make known or cause to appear with great speed. 5. a bright patch of color used for decoration or identification. 6. a lamp for providing momentary light to take a photograph. 7. expose or show briefly. 8. protect by covering with a thin sheet of metal. 9. emit a brief burst of light. 
FLASHY: (used especially of clothes) marked by conspicuous display
FLASK: 1. bottle that has a narrow neck. 2. the quantity a flask will hold. 
FLAT: 1. with flat sails. 2. having a relatively broad surface in relation to depth or thickness. 3. a musical notation indicating one half step lower than the note named. 4. lacking contrast or shading between tones. 5. (of a musical note) lowered in pitch by one chromatic semitone. 6. stretched out and lying at full length along the ground. 7. having lost effervescence. 8. sounded or spoken in a tone unvarying in pitch. 9. horizontally level. 10. not reflecting light; not glossy. 11. commercially inactive. 
FLATLY: in an unqualified manner
FLATS: footwear (shoes or slippers) with no heel (or a very low heel)
FLAUNT: display proudly; act ostentatiously or pretentiously
FLAVIN: a ketone that forms the nucleus of certain natural yellow pigments like riboflavin
FLAVOR: (physics) the six kinds of quarks
FLAW: 1. defect or weakness in a person's character. 2. an imperfection in a plan or theory or legal document that causes it to fail or that reduces its effectiveness. 3. add a flaw or blemish to; make imperfect or defective. 
FLAX: 1. fiber of the flax plant that is made into thread and woven into linen fabric. 2. plant of the genus Linum that is cultivated for its seeds and for the fibers of its stem. 
FLAXEN: of hair color; pale yellowish to yellowish brown
FLEA: any wingless bloodsucking parasitic insect noted for ability to leap
FLEDGE: 1. feed, care for, and rear young birds for flight. 2. decorate with feathers. 3. grow feathers. 
FLEE: run away quickly
FLEECE: 1. the wool of a sheep or similar animal. 2. a soft bulky fabric with deep pile; used chiefly for clothing. 3. shear the wool from. 
FLEER: 1. contempt expressed by mockery in looks or words. 2. to smirk contemptuously. 
FLEET: 1. moving very fast. 2. group of motor vehicles operating together under the same ownership. 3. a group of steamships operating together under the same ownership. 4. a group of warships organized as a tactical unit. 
FLENSE: strip the blubber or skin from (a whale or seal)
FLESH: remove adhering flesh from (hides) when preparing leather manufacture
FLESHY: 1. usually describes a large person who is fat but has a large frame to carry it. 2. of or relating to or resembling flesh. 
FLEX: 1. contract. 2. exhibit the strength of. 3. bend a joint. 4. cause (a plastic object) to assume a crooked or angular form. 
FLY: 1. (British informal) not to be deceived or hoodwinked. 2. operate an airplane. 3. transport by aeroplane. 4. cause to fly or float. 5. move quickly or suddenly. 6. be dispersed or disseminated. 7. change quickly from one emotional state to another. 8. pass away rapidly. 9. travel in an airplane. 10. display in the air or cause to float. 11. travel over (an area of land or sea) in an aircraft. 12. hit a fly. 
FLICK: 1. a light sharp contact (usually with something flexible). 2. look through a book or other written material. 3. twitch or flutter. 4. touch or hit with a light, quick blow. 5. remove with a flick (of the hand). 
FLIER: someone who travels by air
FLIES: (theater) the space over the stage (out of view of the audience) used to store scenery (drop curtains)
FLIGHT: 1. shoot a bird in flight. 2. fly in a flock. 3. a stairway (set of steps) between one floor or landing and the next. 4. an air force unit smaller than a squadron. 5. passing above and beyond ordinary bounds. 6. a flock of flying birds. 7. a scheduled trip by plane between designated airports. 
FLYING: hurried and brief
FLIMSY: 1. lacking solidity or strength. 2. lacking substance or significance; a fragile claim to fame". 
FLINCH: draw back, as with fear or pain
FLING: 1. the act of flinging. 2. throw with force or recklessness. 3. move in an abrupt or headlong manner. 
FLINT: 1. a hard kind of stone; a form of silica more opaque than chalcedony. 2. a river in western Georgia that flows generally south to join the Chattahoochee River at the Florida border where they form the Apalachicola River. 3. a city in southeast central Michigan near Detroit; automobile manufacturing. 
FLINTY: 1. containing flint. 2. showing unfeeling resistance to tender feelings. 
FLIP: 1. hot or cold alcoholic mixed drink containing a beaten egg. 2. a sudden, quick movement. 3. toss with a sharp movement so as to cause to turn over in the air. 4. cause to move with a flick. 5. lightly throw to see which side comes up. 6. throw or toss with a light motion. 7. move with a flick or light motion. 8. turn upside down, or throw so as to reverse. 9. react in an excited, delighted, or surprised way. 10. go mad, go crazy. 
FLIRT: playful behavior intended to arouse sexual interest
FLIT: 1. move along rapidly and lightly; skim or dart. 2. a secret move (to avoid paying debts). 
FLITCH: 1. fish steak usually cut from a halibut. 2. salted and cured abdominal wall of a side of pork. 
FLOAT: 1. be in motion due to some air or water current. 2. be afloat either on or below a liquid surface and not sink to the bottom. 3. circulate or discuss tentatively; test the waters with. 4. move lightly, as if suspended. 5. put into the water. 6. set afloat. 7. make the surface of level or smooth. 8. allow (currencies) to fluctuate. 9. convert from a fixed point notation to a floating point notation. 
FLOCK: 1. move as a crowd or in a group. 2. a group of birds. 3. a group of sheep or goats. 
FLOG: beat severely with a whip or rod
FLOOD: 1. the rising of a body of water and its overflowing onto normally dry land. 2. cover with liquid, usually water. 3. supply with an excess of. 4. become filled to overflowing. 5. the act of flooding; filling to overflowing. 
FLOOR: 1. the inside lower horizontal surface (as of a room, hallway, tent, or other structure). 2. a structure consisting of a room or set of rooms at a single position along a vertical scale. 3. a lower limit. 4. the ground on which people and animals move about. 5. the bottom surface of any lake or other body of water. 6. the lower inside surface of any hollow structure. 7. the occupants of a floor. 8. the parliamentary right to address an assembly. 9. the legislative hall where members debate and vote and conduct other business. 10. a large room in a exchange where the trading is done. 
FLOP: 1. fall suddenly and abruptly. 2. a complete failure. 3. the act of throwing yourself down. 4. with a flopping sound. 
FLOPPY: hanging limply
FLORAL: 1. resembling or made of or suggestive of flowers. 2. relating to or associated with flowers. 3. of or relating to the plant life in a particular region. 
FLOREY: British pathologist who isolated and purified penicillin, which had been discovered in 1928 by Sir Alexander Fleming (1898-1968)
FLORET: a diminutive flower (especially one that is part of a composite flower)
FLORIO: English lexicographer remembered for his Italian and English dictionary (1553-1625)
FLOSS: use dental floss to clean
FLOUR: 1. cover with flour. 2. convert grain into flour. 
FLOURY: resembling flour in fine powdery texture
FLOW: 1. move or progress freely as if in a stream. 2. the amount of fluid that flows in a given time. 3. cause to flow. 4. be abundantly present. 5. cover or swamp with water. 
FLOWER: 1. a plant cultivated for its blooms or blossoms. 2. reproductive organ of angiosperm plants especially one having showy or colorful parts. 3. the period of greatest prosperity or productivity. 
FLUE: a conduit to carry off smoke
FLUENT: smooth and unconstrained in movement
FLUFF: 1. any light downy material. 2. a blunder (especially an actor's forgetting the lines). 
FLUID: 1. subject to change; variable. 2. characteristic of a fluid; capable of flowing and easily changing shape. 3. in cash or easily convertible to cash. 4. affording change (especially in social status). 
FLUKE: 1. a barb on a harpoon or arrow. 2. flat bladelike projection on the arm of an anchor. 3. either of the two lobes of the tail of a cetacean. 4. parasitic flatworms having external suckers for attaching to a host. 
FLUME: watercourse that consists of an open artificial chute filled with water for power or for carrying logs
FLUMP: fall heavily
FLUNKY: a person of unquestioning obedience
FLURRY: 1. a light brief snowfall and gust of wind (or something resembling that). 2. move in an agitated or confused manner. 
FLUSH: 1. make level or straight. 2. a sudden rapid flow (as of water). 3. in the same plane. 4. glow or cause to glow with warm color or light. 5. rinse, clean, or empty with a liquid. 6. cause to flow or flood with or as if with water. 7. squarely or solidly. 
FLUTE: 1. form flutes in. 2. a tall narrow wineglass. 3. a groove or furrow in cloth etc (particularly a shallow concave groove on the shaft of a column). 
FLUX: 1. the rate of flow of energy or particles across a given surface. 2. a flow or discharge. 3. a substance added to molten metals to bond with impurities that can then be readily removed. 4. excessive discharge of liquid from a cavity or organ (as in watery diarrhea). 5. a state of uncertainty about what should be done (usually following some important event) preceding the establishment of a new direction of action. 6. in constant change. 
FOAL: give birth to a foal
FOAM: 1. become bubbly or frothy or foaming. 2. a lightweight material in cellular form; made by introducing gas bubbles during manufacture. 
FOB: 1. a vest pocket to hold a pocket watch. 2. an adornment that hangs from a watch chain. 3. short chain or ribbon attaching a pocket watch to a man's vest. 
FOCAL: 1. having or localized centrally at a focus. 2. of or relating to a focus. 
FOCUS: 1. the concentration of attention or energy on something. 2. cause to converge on or toward a central point. 3. maximum clarity or distinctness of an idea. 4. become focussed or come into focus. 5. a point of convergence of light (or other radiation) or a point from which it diverges. 6. a fixed reference point on the concave side of a conic section. 7. put (an image) into focus; we cannot enjoy the movie". 
FODDER: 1. coarse food (especially for livestock) composed of entire plants or the leaves and stalks of a cereal crop. 2. give fodder (to domesticated animals). 
FOE: a personal enemy
FOG: 1. droplets of water vapor suspended in the air near the ground. 2. an atmosphere in which visibility is reduced because of a cloud of some substance. 
FOGGED: obscured by fog
FOHN: a warm dry wind that blows down the northern slopes of the Alps
FOIBLE: the weaker part of a sword's blade from the forte to the tip
FOIL: 1. enhance by contrast. 2. anything that serves by contrast to call attention to another thing's good qualities. 3. picture consisting of a positive photograph or drawing on a transparent base; viewed with a projector. 4. a light slender flexible sword tipped by a button. 5. cover or back with foil. 
FOIST: 1. to force onto another. 2. insert surreptitiously or without warrant. 
FOLD: 1. bend or lay so that one part covers the other. 2. a geological process that causes a bend in a stratum of rock. 3. become folded or folded up. 4. a pen for sheep. 5. the act of folding. 6. incorporate a food ingredient into a mixture by repeatedly turning it over without stirring or beating. 
FOLDER: covering that is folded over to protect the contents
FOLIO: a book (or manuscript) consisting of large sheets of paper folded in the middle to make two leaves or four pages
FOLIUM: a thin layer or stratum of (especially metamorphic) rock
FOLK: people in general (often used in the plural)
FOLKS: your parents
FOLKSY: very informal and familiar
FOLLY: 1. the trait of acting stupidly or rashly. 2. the quality of being rash and foolish. 3. foolish or senseless behavior. 
FOLLOW: 1. to travel behind, go after, come after. 2. come as a logical consequence; follow logically. 3. travel along a certain course. 4. come after in time, as a result. 5. behave in accordance or in agreement with. 6. be next. 7. to bring something about at a later time than. 8. accept and follow the leadership or command or guidance of. 9. adhere to or practice. 10. grasp the meaning. 
FOMENT: bathe with warm water or medicated lotions
FOMES: genus of bracket fungi forming corky or woody perennial shelflike sporophores often of large size; includes some that cause destructive heartrot in trees
FOMITE: any inanimate object (as a towel or money or clothing or dishes or books or toys etc.) that can transmit infectious agents from one person to another
FOMOR: one of a group of Celtic sea demons sometimes associated with the hostile power of nature
FOND: 1. (followed by `of' or `to') having a strong preference or liking for. 2. absurd or silly because unlikely. 
FONDLY: with fondness; with love
FONDUE: 1. cubes of meat or seafood cooked in hot oil and then dipped in any of various sauces. 2. hot cheese or chocolate melted to the consistency of a sauce into which bread or fruits are dipped. 
FONT: a specific size and style of type within a type family
FOOD: 1. any substance that can be metabolized by an animal to give energy and build tissue. 2. any solid substance (as opposed to liquid) that is used as a source of nourishment. 3. anything that provides mental stimulus for thinking. 
FOOL: make a fool or dupe of
FOOT: 1. pay for something. 2. walk. 3. add a column of numbers. 4. any of various organs of locomotion or attachment in invertebrates. 5. travel by walking. 6. a member of a surveillance team who works on foot or rides as a passenger. 7. a support resembling a pedal extremity. 
FOOTED: having feet
FOOTER: (used only in combinations) the height or length of something in feet
FOOTLE: act foolishly, as by talking nonsense
FORAGE: wander and feed
FORAY: 1. a sudden short attack. 2. briefly enter enemy territory. 
FORAM: marine microorganism having a calcareous shell with openings where pseudopods protrude
FORBID: command against
FORCE: 1. a powerful effect or influence. 2. (physics) the influence that produces a change in a physical quantity. 3. physical energy or intensity. 4. impose urgently, importunately, or inexorably. 5. do forcibly; exert force. 6. force into or from an action or state, either physically or metaphorically. 
FORCED: 1. produced by or subjected to forcing. 2. forced or compelled. 3. made necessary by an unexpected situation or emergency. 
FORD: 1. cross a river where it's shallow. 2. grandson of Henry Ford (1917-1987). 3. son of Henry Ford (1893-1943). 4. English writer and editor (1873-1939). 5. 38th President of the United States; appointed vice president and succeeded Nixon when Nixon resigned (1913-). 6. United States manufacturer of automobiles who pioneered mass production (1863-1947). 7. a shallow area in a stream that can be forded. 8. the act of crossing a stream or river by wading or in a car or on a horse. 
FORE: near or toward the bow of a ship or cockpit of a plane
FOREST: 1. the trees and other plants in a large densely wooded area. 2. land that is covered with trees and shrubs. 
FORGE: 1. create by hammering. 2. make a copy of with the intent to deceive. 3. move ahead steadily. 4. move or act with a sudden increase in speed or energy. 
FORGER: 1. someone who operates a forge. 2. someone who makes copies illegally. 
FORGET: 1. dismiss from the mind; stop remembering. 2. be unable to remember. 3. forget to do something. 4. leave behind unintentionally. 
FORINT: the basic unit of money in Hungary
FORK: 1. cutlery used for serving and eating food. 2. the region of the angle formed by the junction of two branches. 3. shape like a fork. 4. place under attack with one's own pieces, of two enemy pieces. 
FORM: 1. create (as an entity). 2. develop into a distinctive entity. 3. assume a form or shape. 4. a printed document with spaces in which to write. 5. (biology) a group of organisms within a species that differ in trivial ways from similar groups. 6. an arrangement of the elements in a composition or discourse. 7. a particular mode in which something is manifested. 8. an ability to perform well. 9. a mold for setting concrete. 10. to compose or represent:"This wall forms the background of the stage setting". 
FORMAL: 1. being in accord with established forms and conventions and requirements (as e.g. of formal dress). 2. characteristic of or befitting a person in authority. 3. (of spoken and written language) adhering to traditional standards of correctness and without casual, contracted, and colloquial forms. 4. logically deductive. 
FORMAT: 1. set (printed matter) into a specific format. 2. determine the arrangement of (data) for storage and display (in computer science). 3. divide (a disk) into marked sectors so that it may store data. 
FORMED: having or given a form or shape
FORMER: 1. referring to the first of two things or persons mentioned (or the earlier one or ones of several); I prefer the former version to the latter one". 2. (used especially of persons) of the immediate past. 
FORMIC: 1. of or relating to or derived from ants. 2. of or containing or derived from formic acid. 
FORNAX: a faint constellation in the southern hemisphere near Cetus and Phoenix
FORNIX: 1. generally any arch shaped structure (but often it refers to the arched roof of an anatomical space). 2. an arched bundle of white fibers at the base of the brain by which the hippocampus of each hemisphere projects to the contralateral hippocampus and to the thalamus and mamillary bodies. 
FORT: 1. gather in, or as if in, a fort, as for protection or defense. 2. station (troops) in a fort. 
FORTE: 1. used as a direction in music; to be played relatively loudly. 2. (music) loud. 3. the stronger part of a sword blade between the hilt and the foible. 
FORTH: 1. a river in southern Scotland that flows eastward to the Firth of Forth. 2. forward in time or order or degree. 3. out into view. 
FORTY: being ten more than thirty
FORUM: 1. a public meeting or assembly for open discussion. 2. a public facility to meet for open discussion. 
FOSSA: 1. monotypic genus of Madagascar civets closely related to palm civets. 2. largest carnivore of Madagascar; intermediate in some respects between cats and civets. 
FOSSIL: 1. the remains (or an impression) of a plant or animal that existed in a past geological age and that has been excavated from the soil. 2. characteristic of a fossil. 
FOSTER: 1. providing or receiving nurture or parental care though not related by blood or legal ties. 2. bring up under fosterage; of children. 3. help develop, help grow. 
FOUL: 1. hit a foul ball. 2. (of a baseball) not hit between the foul lines. 3. spot, stain, or pollute. 4. make unclean. 5. become soiled and dirty. 
FOULLY: 1. in an unfair and insulting manner. 2. in a wicked and shameful manner. 
FOUND: come upon unexpectedly or after searching
FOUR: being one more than three
FOURTH: 1. coming next after the third and just before the fifth in position or time or degree or magnitude. 2. the musical interval between one note and another four notes away from it. 
FOVEA: area consisting of a small depression in the retina containing cones and where vision is most acute
FOWL: 1. hunt fowl. 2. hunt fowl in the forest. 
FOWLER: 1. English lexicographer who wrote a well-known book on English usage (1858-1933). 2. someone who hunts wild birds for food. 
FOX: 1. alert carnivorous mammal with pointed muzzle and ears and a bushy tail; most are predators that do not hunt in packs. 2. become discolored with, or as if with, mildew spots. 3. English statesman who supported American independence and the French Revolution (1749-1806). 4. English religious leader who founded the Society of Friends (1624-1691). 5. a member of an Algonquian people formerly living west of Lake Michigan along the Fox River. 6. the Algonquian language of the Fox. 
FRAY: wear away by rubbing
FRAYED: worn away or tattered along the edges
FRAIL: 1. physically weak. 2. a basket for holding dried fruit (especially raisins or figs). 
FRAISE: 1. a ruff for the neck worn in the 16th century. 2. sloping or horizontal rampart of pointed stakes. 
FRAME: 1. enclose in or as if in a frame. 2. enclose in a frame, as of a picture. 3. make up plans or basic details for. 4. construct by fitting or uniting parts together. 5. a framework that supports and protects a picture or a mirror. 6. one of the ten divisions into which bowling is divided. 7. formulate in a particular style or language. 
FRAMED: provided with a frame
FRAMER: 1. someone who makes frames (as for pictures). 2. someone who writes a new law or plan. 
FRANC: the basic monetary unit in many countries; equal to 100 centimes
FRANCE: 1. a republic in western Europe; the largest country wholly in Europe. 
FRANK: 1. a member of the ancient Germanic peoples who spread from the Rhine into the Roman Empire in the 4th century. 2. clearly manifest; evident. 
FRAP: 1. make secure by lashing. 2. take up the slack of. 
FRAPPE: 1. liqueur poured over shaved ice. 2. thick milkshake containing ice cream. 
FRAU: a German courtesy title or form of address for an adult woman
FRAUD: 1. intentional deception resulting in injury to another person. 2. something intended to deceive; deliberate trickery intended to gain an advantage. 
FRAZER: English social anthropologist noted for studies of primitive religion and magic (1854-1941)
FREAK: a person or animal that is markedly unusual or deformed
FREAKY: strange and somewhat frightening
FREE: 1. able to act at will; not hampered; not under compulsion or restraint. 2. make (information) available for publication. 3. not held in servitude. 4. free or remove obstruction from. 5. unconstrained or not chemically bound in a molecule or not fixed and capable of relatively unrestricted motion. 6. not occupied or in use. 7. not literal. 
FREELY: in a free manner
FREEZE: 1. stop moving or become immobilized. 2. change to ice. 3. be cold. 4. cause to freeze. 5. stop a process or a habit by imposing a freeze on it. 6. be very cold, below the freezing point. 7. change from a liquid to a solid when cold. 8. prohibit the conversion or use of (assets). 9. anesthetize by cold. 10. suddenly behave coldly and formally. 
FREY: (Norse mythology) god of earth's fertility and peace and prosperity; son of Njorth and brother of Freya; originally of the Vanir; later with the Aesir
FREYA: (Norse mythology) goddess of love and fecundity; daughter of Njorth and sister of Frey
FRENCH: 1. of or pertaining to France or the people of France. 2. the people of France. 3. United States sculptor who created the seated marble figure of Abraham Lincoln in the Lincoln Memorial in Washington D.C. (1850-1931). 
FREON: any one or more chlorofluorocarbons (or related compounds) that are used as an aerosol propellant, organic solvent, or refrigerant
FRESCO: 1. paint onto wet plaster on a wall. 2. a durable method of painting on a wall by using watercolors on wet plaster. 
FRESH: 1. recently made, produced, or harvested. 2. (of a cycle) beginning or occurring again. 3. original and of a kind not seen before. 4. not canned or otherwise preserved. 5. not containing or composed of salt water. 6. having recently calved and therefore able to give milk. 7. with restored energy. 8. not soured or preserved. 9. not yet used or soiled. 10. improperly forward or bold. 
FRESNO: a city in south central California in the San Joaquin Valley; center of an important agricultural area and gateway to the Sierra Nevada Mountains
FRET: 1. agitation resulting from active worry. 2. provide (a musical instrument) with frets. 3. a small bar of metal across the fingerboard of a musical instrument; when the string is stopped by a finger at the metal bar it will produce a note of the desired pitch. 4. be agitated or irritated. 5. cause annoyance in. 6. carve a pattern into. 7. decorate with an interlaced design. 8. wear away or erode. 
FREUD: Austrian neurologist who originated psychoanalysis (1856-1939)
FRY: 1. be excessively hot. 2. cook on a hot surface using fat. 
FRIAR: a male member of a religious order that originally relied solely on alms
FRIARY: a monastery of friars
FRIDAY: the sixth day of the week; the fifth working day
FRIED: cooked by frying in fat
FRIEND: 1. a person you know well and regard with affection and trust. 2. a member of the Religious Society of Friends founded by George Fox (the Friends have never called themselves Quakers). 
FRYER: flesh of a medium-sized young chicken suitable for frying
FRIEZE: 1. an architectural ornament consisting of a horizontal sculptured band between the architrave and the cornice. 2. a heavy woolen fabric with a long nap. 
FRIGID: devoid of warmth and cordiality; expressive of unfriendliness or disdain
FRYING: cooking in fat or oil in a pan or griddle
FRILL: 1. (paleontology) a bony plate that curves upward behind the skull of many ceratopsian dinosaurs. 2. an external body part consisting of feathers or hair about the neck of a bird or other animal. 3. a strip of pleated material used as a decoration or a trim. 
FRINGE: 1. one of the light or dark bands produced by the interference and diffraction of light. 2. a social group holding marginal or extreme views. 3. an ornamental border consisting of short lengths of hanging threads or tassels. 4. adorn with a fringe. 5. decorate with or as if with a surrounding fringe. 
FRINGY: at or constituting a border or edge
FRISCH: 1. British physicist (born in Austria) who with Lise Meitner recognized that Otto Hahn had produced a new kind of nuclear reaction which they named nuclear fission; Frisch described the explosive potential of a chain nuclear reaction (1904-1979). 2. Norwegian economist noted for his work in econometrics (1895-1973). 3. Austrian zoologist noted for his studies of honeybees (1886-1982). 
FRISK: 1. the act of searching someone for concealed weapons or illegal drugs. 2. search as for concealed weapons by running the hands rapidly over the clothing and through the pockets. 
FRIVOL: act frivolously
FRIZZ: the condition of being formed into small tight curls
FROCK: put a frock on
FROG: 1. hunt frogs for food. 2. a person of French descent. 3. a decorative loop of braid or cord. 
FROLIC: play boisterously
FROND: compound leaf of a fern or palm or cycad
FRONT: 1. relating to or located in the front. 2. the outward appearance of a person. 3. the side that is seen or that goes first. 4. a sphere of activity involving effort. 5. (meteorology) the atmospheric phenomenon created at the boundary between two different air masses. 6. the part of something that is nearest to the normal viewer. 7. confront bodily. 
FRORE: very cold
FROST: 1. decorate with frosting. 2. cover with frost. 3. damage by frost. 4. provide with a rough or speckled surface or appearance. 
FROSTY: covered with frost
FROTH: 1. make froth or foam and become bubbly. 2. exude or expel foam. 
FROWN: look angry or sullen, wrinkle one's forehead, as if to signal disapproval
FROWSY: negligent of neatness especially in dress and person; habitually dirty and unkempt
FROZEN: 1. turned into ice; affected by freezing or by long and severe cold. 2. absolutely still. 3. not thawed. 4. not convertible to cash. 
FRUIT: 1. cause to bear fruit. 2. the consequence of some effort or action. 3. bear fruit. 
FRUITY: tasting or smelling richly of or as of fruit
FRUMP: a dull unattractive unpleasant girl or woman
FTP: use the file transfer protocol to transfer data from one computer to another
FUCK: slang for sexual intercourse
FUCKER: 1. someone who engages in sexual intercourse. 2. a stupid despised man. 
FUCOID: 1. a fossilized cast or impression of algae of the order Fucales. 2. any of various algae of the family Fucaceae. 
FUCUS: any member of the genus Fucus
FUDGE: tamper, with the purpose of deception
FUEL: 1. provide with a combustible substance that provides energy. 2. provide with fuel. 3. take in fuel, as of a ship. 4. stimulate. 
FUELED: heated, driven, or produced by burning fuel
FUG: (British informal) an airless smoky smelly atmosphere
FUGAL: of or relating to or in the style of a musical fugue
FUGARD: South African playwright whose plays feature the racial tensions in South Africa during apartheid (born in 1932)
FUGGY: (British informal) poorly ventilated
FUGU: a blowfish highly prized as a delicacy in Japan but highly dangerous because the skin and organs are poisonous
FUGUE: 1. dissociative disorder in which a person forgets who they are and leaves home to creates a new life; during the fugue there is no memory of the former life; after recovering there is no memory for events during the dissociative state. 2. a dreamlike state of altered consciousness that may last for hours or days. 3. a musical form consisting of a theme repeated a fifth above or a fourth below its first statement. 
FUJI: 1. shrubby Japanese cherry tree having pale pink blossoms. 2. an extinct volcano in south central Honshu that is the highest peak in Japan; last erupted in 1707; famous for its symmetrical snow-capped peak; a sacred mountain and site for pilgrimages. 
FULA: a family of languages of the Fulani of West Africa and used as a lingua franca in the sub-Saharan regions from Senegal to Chad; the best known of the West African languages
FULANI: a member of a pastoral and nomadic people of western Africa; they are traditionally cattle herders of Muslim faith
FULICA: coots
FULL: 1. containing as much or as many as is possible or normal. 2. make (a garment) fuller by pleating or gathering. 3. complete in extent or degree and in every particular. 4. filled to satisfaction with food or drink. 5. (of sound) having marked deepness and body. 6. having the normally expected amount. 
FULLER: 1. United States jurist and chief justice of the United States Supreme Court (1833-1910). 2. United States architect who invented the geodesic dome (1895-1983). 3. a workman who fulls (cleans and thickens) freshly woven cloth for a living. 
FULLY: to the greatest degree or extent; completely or entirely; (`full' in this sense is used as a combining form)
FULMAR: heavy short-tailed oceanic bird of polar regions
FULTON: American inventor who designed the first commercially successful steamboat and the first steam warship (1765-1815)
FUMBLE: 1. (sports) dropping the ball. 2. make one's way clumsily or blindly. 3. handle clumsily. 4. drop or juggle or fail to play cleanly a grounder. 
FUME: 1. be mad, angry, or furious. 2. emit a cloud of fine particles. 
FUMED: (of wood) darkened or colored by exposure to ammonia fumes
FUN: 1. activities that are enjoyable or amusing. 2. verbal wit or mockery (often at another's expense but not to be taken seriously). 3. violent and excited activity. 
FUND: 1. convert (short-term floating debt) into long-term debt that bears fixed interest and is represented by bonds. 2. place or store up in a fund for accumulation. 3. provide a fund for the redemption of principal or payment of interest. 4. invest money in government securities. 5. accumulate a fund for the discharge of a recurrent liability. 6. furnish money for. 
FUNDED: furnished with funds
FUNDS: assets in the form of money
FUNDUS: (anatomy) the base of a hollow organ or that part of the organ farthest from its opening
FUNGAL: of or relating to fungi
FUNGI: the taxonomic kingdom including yeast, molds, smuts, mushrooms, and toadstools; distinct from the green plants
FUNGIA: a genus comprising the usual mushroom corals
FUNGUS: an organism of the kingdom Fungi lacking chlorophyll and feeding on organic matter; ranging from unicellular or multicellular organisms to spore-bearing syncytia
FUNK: 1. a state of nervous depression. 2. United States biochemist (born in Poland) who showed that several diseases were caused by dietary deficiencies and who coined the term `vitamin' for the chemicals involved (1884-1967). 3. an earthy type of jazz combining it with blues and soul; has a heavy bass line that accentuates the first beat in the bar. 
FUNKY: 1. (of jazz) having the soulful feeling of early blues. 2. stylish and modern in an unconventional way. 3. in a state of cowardly fright. 
FUNNEL: 1. move or pour through a funnel. 2. a conically shaped utensil having a narrow tube at the small end; used to channel the flow of substances into a container with a small mouth. 3. (nautical) smokestack consisting of a shaft for ventilation or the passage of smoke (especially the smokestack of a ship). 
FUNNY: experiencing odd bodily sensations
FUR: 1. the dressed hairy coat of a mammal. 2. dense coat of fine silky hairs on mammals (e.g., cat or seal or weasel). 3. a garment made of the dressed hairy coat of a mammal. 
FURAN: a colorless toxic flammable liquid used in the synthesis of nylon
FURY: 1. a feeling of intense anger. 2. (classical mythology) the hideous snake-haired monsters (usually three in number) who pursued unpunished criminals. 
FURLED: rolled up and secured
FUROR: a sudden outburst (as of protest)
FURRED: covered with a dense coat of fine silky hairs
FURROW: 1. hollow out in the form of a furrow or groove. 2. make wrinkled or creased. 3. cut a furrow into a columns. 
FUSE: 1. an electrical device that can interrupt the flow of electrical current when it is overloaded. 2. become plastic or fluid or liquefied from heat. 3. equip with a fuse; provide with a fuse. 4. make liquid or plastic by heating. 
FUSEE: 1. a colored flare used as a warning signal by trucks and trains. 2. a friction match with a large head that will stay alight in the wind. 
FUSIL: a light flintlock musket
FUSION: 1. an occurrence that involves the production of a union. 2. the merging of adjacent sounds or syllables or words. 3. a nuclear reaction in which nuclei combine to form more massive nuclei with the simultaneous release of energy. 4. the combining of images from the two eyes to form a single visual percept. 5. correction of an unstable part of the spine by joining two or more vertebrae; usually done surgically but sometimes done by traction or immobilization. 6. the act of fusing (or melting) together. 
FUSS: 1. an angry disturbance. 2. worry unnecessarily or excessively. 
FUSTY: 1. stale and unclean smelling. 2. old-fashioned and out of date. 
FUTILE: producing no result or effect
FUTON: mattress consisting of a pad of cotton batting that is used for sleeping on the floor or on a raised frame
FUTURE: 1. yet to be or coming. 2. effective in or looking toward the future. 3. (of elected officers) elected but not yet serving. 4. a verb tense or other formation referring to events or states that have not yet happened. 
FUZZ: the first beard of an adolescent boy
FUZZED: covering with fine light hairs
FUZZY: confused and not coherent; not clearly thought out
GABBRO: one of a family of granular intrusive rocks
GABLE: 1. the vertical triangular wall between the sloping ends of gable roof. 2. United States film actor (1901-1960). 
GABLED: (of a roof) constructed with a single slope on each side of the ridge supported at the end by a gable or vertical triangular portion of an end wall
GABON: a republic on the west coast of Africa
GABOR: British physicist (born in Hungary) noted for his work on holography (1900-1979)
GADABA: 1. a member of an agricultural people in southeastern India. 2. the Dravidian language spoken by the Gadaba. 
GADDI: a cushion on a throne for a prince in India
GADFLY: any of various large flies that annoy livestock
GADOID: a soft-finned fish of the family Gadidae
GADUS: type genus of the Gadidae: the typical codfishes
GAEL: a Gaelic-speaking Celt in Ireland or Scotland or the Isle of Man
GAELIC: any of several related languages of the Celts in Ireland and Scotland
GAFF: 1. a sharp metal spike or spur that is fastened to the leg of a gamecock. 2. a spar rising aft from a mast to support the head of a quadrilateral fore-and-aft sail. 3. an iron hook with a handle; used for landing large fish. 
GAFFER: an electrician responsible for lighting on a movie or tv set
GAFSA: a city in west central Tunisia
GAG: 1. restraint put into a person's mouth to prevent speaking or shouting. 2. prevent from speaking out. 3. tie a gag around someone's mouth in order to silence them. 4. make jokes or quips. 5. struggle for breath; have insufficient oxygen intake. 6. cause to retch or choke. 7. make an unsuccessful effort to vomit; strain to vomit. 
GAGGLE: make a noise characteristic of a goose
GAGMAN: 1. a comedian who uses gags. 2. someone who writes comic material for public performers. 
GAY: 1. full of or showing high-spirited merriment. 2. given to social pleasures often including dissipation. 3. offering fun and gaiety. 4. homosexual or arousing homosexual desires. 
GAYAL: ox of southeast Asia sometimes considered a domesticated breed of the gaur
GAIETY: 1. a gay feeling. 2. a festive merry feeling. 
GAILY: in a gay manner
GAIN: 1. the amount by which the revenue of a business exceeds its cost of operating. 2. obtain advantages, such as points, etc.. 3. increase or develop. 4. earn on some commercial or business transaction; earn as salary or wages. 5. increase (one's body weight). 
GAINER: 1. a person who gains weight. 2. a person who gains (gains an advantage or gains profits). 3. a dive in which the diver throws the feet forward to complete a full backward somersault and enters the water feet first and facing away from the diving board. 
GAINLY: graceful and pleasing
GAIT: 1. a horse's manner of moving. 2. a person's manner of walking. 
GAITER: 1. a shoe covering the ankle with elastic gores in the sides. 2. legging consisting of a cloth or leather covering for the leg from the knee to the ankle. 
GAL: 1. a unit of gravitational acceleration equal to one centimeter per second per second (named after Galileo). 2. alliterative term for girl (or woman). 
GALA: a gay festivity
GALAGO: agile long-tailed nocturnal African lemur with dense woolly fur and large eyes and ears
GALAN: a mountain peak in the Andes in Argentina (21,654 feet high)
GALAX: tufted evergreen perennial herb having spikes of tiny white flowers and glossy green round to heart-shaped leaves that become coppery to maroon or purplish in fall
GALAXY: 1. a splendid assemblage (especially of famous people). 2. (astronomy) a collection of star systems; any of the billions of systems each having many stars and nebulae and dust. 
GALE: a strong wind moving 45-90 knots; force 7 to 10 on Beaufort scale
GALEA: an organ shaped like a helmet; usually a vaulted and enlarged petal as in Aconitum
GALEGA: small genus of Eurasian herbs: goat's rue
GALEN: Greek anatomist whose theories formed the basis of European medicine until the Renaissance (circa 130-200)
GALENA: soft blue-grey mineral; lead sulfide; a major source of lead
GALERE: a coterie of undesirable people
GALIUM: annual or perennial herbs: bedstraw; cleavers
GALL: 1. irritate or vex. 2. abnormal swelling of plant tissue caused by insects or microorganisms or injury. 
GALLEY: 1. a large medieval vessel with a single deck propelled by sails and oars with guns at stern and prow; a complement of 1,000 men; used mainly in the Mediterranean for war and trading. 2. (classical antiquity) a crescent-shaped seagoing vessel propelled by oars. 3. the kitchen area for food preparation on an airliner. 4. the area for food preparation on a ship. 
GALLIC: of or pertaining to Gaul or the Gauls
GALLON: 1. United States liquid unit equal to 4 quarts or 3.785 liters. 2. a British imperial capacity measure (liquid or dry) equal to 4 quarts or 4.545 liters. 
GALLOP: 1. ride at a galloping pace. 2. go at galloping speed. 3. cause to move at full gallop. 
GALLUP: a town in northwestern New Mexico near the Arizona border
GALLUS: common domestic birds and related forms
GALOIS: French mathematician who described the conditions for solving polynomial equations; was killed in a duel at the age of 21 (1811-1832)
GALOOT: a disreputable or clumsy man
GALORE: in great numbers
GALTON: English scientist (cousin of Charles Darwin) who explored many fields including heredity, meteorology, statistics, psychology, and anthropology; founder of eugenics and first to use fingerprints for identification (1822-1911)
GALWAY: a port city in western Ireland on Galway Bay
GAM: a herd of whales
GAMBIA: a narrow republic surrounded by Senegal in West Africa
GAMBIT: 1. an opening remark intended to secure an advantage for the speaker. 2. a chess move early in the game in which the player sacrifices minor pieces in order to obtain an advantageous position. 
GAMBLE: 1. take a risk in the hope of a favorable outcome. 2. play games for money. 
GAME: 1. a contest with rules to determine a winner. 2. willing to face danger. 3. an amusement or pastime. 4. animal hunted for food or sport. 5. (tennis) a division of play during which one player serves. 6. (games) the score at a particular point or the score needed to win. 7. the flesh of wild animals that is used for food. 8. the game equipment needed in order to play a particular game. 9. your occupation or line of work. 10. frivolous or trifling behavior. 
GAMEY: (used of the smell of meat) smelling spoiled or tainted
GAMELY: in a plucky manner
GAMETE: a mature sexual reproductive cell having a single set of unpaired chromosomes
GAMINE: 1. a homeless girl who roams the streets. 2. a girl of impish appeal. 
GAMMA: 1. the 3rd letter of the Greek alphabet. 2. a unit of magnetic field strength equal to one-hundred-thousandth of an oersted. 
GAMMY: (British informal) sore or lame
GAMMON: hind portion of a side of bacon
GAMP: colloquial terms for an umbrella
GAMUT: 1. a complete extent or range: "a face that expressed a gamut of emotions". 2. the entire scale of musical notes. 
GANDER: mature male goose
GANDHI: 1. daughter of Nehru who served as prime minister of India from 1966 to 1977 (1917-1984). 2. political and spiritual leader during India's struggle with Great Britain for home rule; an advocate of passive resistance (1869-1948). 
GANG: 1. act as an organized group. 2. an organized group of workmen. 3. tool consisting of a combination of implements arranged to work together. 
GANGER: the foreman of a work gang
GANGES: an Asian river; rises in the Himalayas and flows east into the Bay of Bengal; a sacred river of the Hindus
GANNET: large heavily built seabird with a long stout bill noted for its plunging dives for fish
GANOID: primitive fishes having thick bony scales with a shiny covering
GANOIN: shiny substance that resemble enamel and is secreted by the corium of certain fishes (especially ganoid fishes) and composes the outer layer of their scales
GANTRY: a framework of steel bars raised on side supports to bridge over or around something; can display railway signals above several tracks or can support a traveling crane etc.
GAP: 1. make an opening or gap in. 2. a narrow opening. 3. a difference (especially an unfortunate difference) between two opinions or two views or two situations. 
GAPE: 1. an expression of openmouthed astonishment. 2. be wide open. 
GAR: primitive predaceous North American fish covered with hard scales and having long jaws with needlelike teeth
GARAGE: 1. keep or store in a garage. 2. a repair shop where cars and trucks are serviced and repaired. 
GARDEN: 1. work in the garden. 2. the flowers or vegetables or fruits or herbs that are cultivated in a garden. 3. a yard or lawn adjoining a house. 
GARGLE: 1. utter with gargling or burbling sounds. 2. rinse one's mouth and throat with mouthwash. 
GARY: a city in northwest Indiana on Lake Michigan; steel production
GARLIC: 1. bulbous herb of southern Europe widely naturalized; bulb breaks up into separate strong-flavored cloves. 2. aromatic bulb used as seasoning. 
GARNER: store grain
GARNET: any of a group of hard glassy minerals (silicates of various metals) used as gemstones and as an abrasive
GARTER: fasten with or as if with a garter
GARUDA: a supernatural eagle-like being that serves as Vishnu's mount
GAS: 1. attack with gas; subject to gas fumes. 2. a fluid in the gaseous state having neither independent shape nor volume and being able to expand indefinitely. 
GASBAG: a boring person who talks a great deal about uninteresting topics
GASIFY: turn into gas
GASKET: seal consisting of a ring for packing pistons or sealing a pipe joint
GASKIN: lower part of a horse's thigh between the hock and the stifle
GASMAN: someone employed by a gas company
GASP: a short labored intake of breath with the mouth open
GASSY: resembling gas
GAT: a gangster's pistol
GATE: 1. supply with a gate. 2. control with a valve or other device that functions like a gate. 3. restrict (school boys') movement to the dormitory or campus as a means of punishment. 4. passageway (as in an air terminal) where passengers can embark or disembark. 
GATEAU: any of various rich and elaborate cakes
GATHER: 1. assemble or get together. 2. the act of gathering something. 3. conclude from evidence. 4. draw together into folds or puckers. 5. draw and bring closer. 6. look for (food) in nature. 
GATHIC: an ancient Iranian language
GAUCHE: lacking social polish
GAUCHO: a cowboy of the South American pampas
GAUDY: (Britain) a celebratory reunion feast or entertainment held a college
GAUGE: 1. a measuring instrument for measuring and indicating a quantity such as the thickness of wire or the amount of rain etc.. 2. rub to a uniform size. 3. determine the capacity, volume, or contents of by measurement and calculation. 4. measure precisely and against a standard. 5. adapt to a specified measurement. 6. mix in specific proportions. 
GAUL: 1. a Celt of ancient Gaul. 2. an ancient region of western Europe that included what is now northern Italy and France and Belgium and part of Germany and the Netherlands. 
GAUR: wild ox of mountainous areas of eastern India
GAUSS: 1. a unit of magnetic flux density equal to 1 maxwell per square centimeter. 2. German mathematician who developed the theory of numbers and who applied mathematics to electricity and magnetism and astronomy and geodesy (1777-1855). 
GAUZE: 1. (medicine) bleached cotton cloth of plain weave used for bandages and dressings. 2. a net of transparent fabric with a loose open weave. 
GAVEL: a small mallet used by a presiding officer or a judge
GAVIA: type genus of the Gavidae: loons
GAVIAL: large fish-eating Indian crocodilian with a long slender snout
GAWAIN: (Arthurian legend) a nephew of Arthur and one of the knights of the Round Table
GAWKER: a spectator who stares stupidly without intelligent awareness
GAWKY: lacking grace in movement or posture
GAZE: look at with fixed eyes
GAZEBO: a small roofed building affording shade and rest
GAZUMP: raise the price of something after agreeing on a lower price
GDANSK: a port city of northern Poland near the mouth of the Vistula River on a gulf of the Baltic Sea; a member of the Hanseatic League in the 14th century
GEAN: wild or seedling sweet cherry used as stock for grafting
GEAR: 1. set the level or character of. 2. a mechanism for transmitting motion for some specific purpose (as the steering gear of a vehicle). 3. equipment consisting of miscellaneous articles needed for a particular operation or sport etc.. 
GEARED: equipped with or connected by gears or having gears engaged
GEB: Egyptian god of the earth; father of Osiris and Isis
GECKO: any of various small chiefly tropical and usually nocturnal insectivorous terrestrial lizards typically with immovable eyelids; completely harmless
GEE: 1. turn to the right side. 2. give a command to a horse to turn to the right side. 
GEEK: a carnival performer who does disgusting acts
GEEZER: a man who is (usually) old and/or eccentric
GEHRIG: baseball player who died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (1903-1941)
GEIGER: German physicist who developed the Geiger counter (1882-1945)
GEYSER: to overflow like a geyser
GEISHA: a Japanese woman trained to entertain men with conversation and singing and dancing
GEL: become a gel
GELD: cut off the testicles (of male animals such as horses)
GEM: 1. art highly prized for its beauty or perfection. 2. a crystalline rock that can be cut and polished for jewelry. 
GEMARA: the second part of the Talmud consisting primarily of commentary on the Mishna
GEMINI: 1. (astrology) a person who is born while the sun is in Gemini. 2. a zodiacal constellation in the northern hemisphere between Taurus and Cancer on the ecliptic. 3. the third sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about May 21 to June 20. 
GEMMA: small asexual reproductive structure in e.g. liverworts and mosses that detaches from the parent and develops into a new individual
GEN: informal term for information
GENDER: a grammatical category in inflected languages governing the agreement between nouns and pronouns and adjectives; in some languages it is quite arbitrary but in Indo-European languages it is usually based on sex or animateness
GENE: (genetics) a segment of DNA that is involved in producing a polypeptide chain; it can include regions preceding and following the coding DNA as well as introns between the exons; it is considered a unit of heredity
GENET: 1. French diplomat who in 1793 tried to draw the United States into the war between France and England (1763-1834). 2. French writer of novels and dramas for the theater of the absurd (1910-1986). 3. agile Old World viverrine having a spotted coat and long ringed tail. 
GENEVA: 1. a city in southwestern Switzerland at the western end of Lake Geneva; it is the headquarters of various international organizations. 2. gin made in the Netherlands. 
GENIAL: of or relating to the chin or median part of the lower jaw
GENIC: of or relating to or produced by or being a gene
GENIE: (Islam) an invisible spirit mentioned in the Koran and believed by Muslims to inhabit the earth and influence mankind by appearing in the form of humans or animals
GENIP: round one-inch Caribbean fruit with green leathery skin and sweet juicy translucent pulp; eaten like grapes
GENIPA: any tree of the genus Genipa bearing yellow flowers and edible fruit with a thick rind
GENIUS: 1. someone who has exceptional intellectual ability and originality. 2. exceptional creative ability. 
GENOA: a seaport in northwestern Italy; provincial capital of Liguria
GENOME: the ordering of genes in a haploid set of chromosomes of a particular organism; the full DNA sequence of an organism
GENRE: 1. a kind of literary or artistic work. 2. a class of art (or artistic endeavor) having a characteristic form or technique. 
GENT: 1. informal abbreviation of `gentleman'. 2. port city in northwestern Belgium and industrial center; famous for cloth industry. 
GENTLE: 1. quiet and soothing. 2. soft and mild; not harsh or stern or severe. 3. having or showing a kindly or tender nature. 
GENTLY: 1. in a gradual manner. 2. in a gentle manner. 
GENTRY: the most powerful members of a society
GENUS: 1. a general kind of something. 2. (biology) taxonomic group containing one or more species. 
GEODE: (mineralogy) a hollow rock or nodule with the cavity usually lined with crystals
GEOMYS: type genus of the Geomyidae
GEORGE: 1. Christian martyr; patron saint of England; hero of the legend of Saint George and the Dragon in which he slew a dragon and saved a princess (?-303). 2. King of Great Britain and Ireland and emperor of India from 1936 to 1947; he succeeded Edward VIII (1895-1952). 3. King of Great Britain and Ireland and emperor of India from 1910 to 1936; gave up his German title in 1917 during World War I (1865-1936). 4. King of Great Britain and Ireland and Hanover from 1820 to 1830; his attempt to divorce his estranged wife undermined the prestige of the Crown (1762-1830). 5. King of Great Britain and Ireland from 1760 to 1820; the American colonies were lost during his reign; he became insane in 1811 and his son (later George IV) acted as regent until 1820 (1738-1820). 6. King of Great Britain and Elector of Hanover from 1727 to 1760 (1683-1760). 7. Elector of Hanover and the first Hanoverian King of Great Britain and Ireland from 1714 to 1727 (1660-1727). 
GERBIL: small Old World burrowing desert rodent with long soft pale fur and hind legs adapted for leaping
GERYON: (Greek mythology) a mythical monster with three heads that was slain by Hercules
GERM: a small apparently simple structure (as a fertilized egg) from which new tissue can develop into a complete organism
GERMAN: 1. of or pertaining to or characteristic of Germany or its people or language. 2. the standard German language; developed historically from West Germanic. 
GERMY: full of germs or pathological microorganisms
GERRES: type genus of the Gerreidae
GERUND: a noun formed from a verb (such as the `-ing' form of an English verb when used as a noun)
GESNER: Swiss naturalist who was one of the founders of modern zoology (1516-1565)
GESSO: gypsum or plaster of Paris spread on a surface to make it suitable for painting or gilding (or a surface so prepared)
GET: 1. come into the possession of something concrete or abstract. 2. cause to move; cause to be in a certain position or condition. 3. succeed in catching or seizing, especially after a chase. 4. communicate with a place or person; establish communication with, as if by telephone. 5. reach with a blow or hit in a particular spot. 6. reach by calculation. 7. acquire as a result of some effort or action. 8. purchase. 9. receive as a retribution or punishment. 10. reach and board. 11. irritate. 12. evoke an emotional response. 13. overcome or destroy. 
GEUM: avens
GHANA: a republic in West Africa on the Gulf of Guinea
GHARRY: a horse-drawn carriage in India
GHAT: stairway in India leading down to a landing on the water
GHATTI: an Indian gum from the dhawa tree; used as a substitute for gum arabic
GHEE: clarified butter used in Indian cookery
GHEG: the dialect of Albanian spoken in northern Albania and Yugoslavia
GHETTO: 1. formerly the restricted quarter of many European cities in which Jews were required to live. 2. any segregated mode of living or working that results from bias or stereotyping. 3. a poor densely populated city district occupied by a minority ethnic group linked together by economic hardship and social restrictions. 
GHOST: 1. move like a ghost. 2. write for someone else. 
GHOUL: an evil spirit or ghost
GIANT: 1. any creature of exceptional size. 2. an unusually large enterprise. 3. a very large person; impressive in size or qualities. 4. someone or something that is abnormally large and powerful. 5. an imaginary figure of superhuman size and strength; appears in folklore and fairy tales. 
GIB: a castrated tomcat
GIBBER: chatter inarticulately; of monkeys
GIBBET: hang on an execution instrument
GIBBON: 1. English historian best known for his history of the Roman Empire (1737-1794). 2. smallest and most perfectly anthropoid arboreal ape having long arms and no tail; of southern Asia and East Indies. 
GIBLET: edible viscera of a fowl
GIDE: French author and dramatist who is regarded as the father of modern French literature (1869-1951)
GIDGEE: scrubby Australian acacia having extremely foul-smelling blossoms
GIFT: something acquired without compensation
GIG: 1. long and light rowing boat; especially for racing. 2. a cluster of hooks (without barbs) that is drawn through a school of fish to hook their bodies; used when fish are not biting. 3. tender that is a light ship's boat; often for personal use of captain. 4. small two-wheeled horse-drawn carriage; with two seats and no hood. 5. a booking for musicians. 
GIGGLE: laugh nervously
GIGO: (computer science) a rule stating that the quality of the output is a function of the quality of the input; put garbage in and you get garbage out
GIGOLO: a man who has sex with and is supported by a woman
GILA: a river that rises in western New Mexico and flows westward through southern Arizona to become a tributary of the Colorado River
GILD: decorate with, or as if with, gold leaf or liquid gold
GILDED: based on pretense; deceptively pleasing
GILDER: someone whose occupation is to apply an overlay of gold or gilt
GILL: 1. a British imperial capacity unit (liquid or dry) equal to 5 fluid ounces or 142.066 cubic centimeters. 2. a United States liquid unit equal to 4 fluid ounces. 3. any of the radiating leaflike spore-producing structures on the underside of the cap of a mushroom or similar fungus. 4. respiratory organ of aquatic animals that breathe oxygen dissolved in water. 
GILLIE: a young male attendant on a Scottish Highlander chief
GILT: a coating of gold or of something that looks like gold
GIMBAL: an appliance that allows an object (such as a ship's compass) to remain horizontal even as its support tips
GIMLET: a cocktail made of gin or vodka and lime juice
GIN: 1. separate the seeds from (cotton) with a cotton gin. 2. a form of rummy in which a player can go out if the cards remaining in their hand total less than 10 points. 3. trap with a snare. 
GINGER: 1. (used especially of hair or fur) having a bright orange-brown color. 2. dried ground gingerroot. 3. pungent rhizome of the common ginger plant; used fresh as a seasoning especially in Asian cookery. 
GINKGO: deciduous dioecious Chinese tree having fan-shaped leaves and fleshy yellow seeds; exists almost exclusively in cultivation especially as an ornamental street tree
GYNURA: genus of Old World tropical herbs: velvet plants
GIOTTO: Florentine painter who gave up the stiff Byzantine style and developed a more naturalistic style; considered the greatest Italian painter prior to the Renaissance (1267-1337)
GYPS: a genus of Accipitridae
GYPSY: a member of a people with dark skin and hair who speak Romany and who traditionally live by seasonal work and fortunetelling; they are believed to have originated in northern India but now are living on all continents (but mostly in Europe, North Africa, and North America)
GYPSUM: a common white or colorless mineral (hydrated calcium sulphate) used to make cements and plasters (especially plaster of Paris)
GYRAL: relating to or associated with or comprising a convolution of the brain
GYRATE: to wind or move in a spiral course
GIRD: bind with something round or circular
GIRDER: a beam made usually of steel; a main support in a structure
GIRDLE: 1. cut a girdle around so as to kill by interrupting the circulation of water and nutrients. 2. put a girdle on or around. 
GIRL: 1. a young woman. 2. a friendly informal reference to a grown woman. 
GIRO: 1. a check given by the British government to someone who is unemployed; it can be cashed either at a bank or at the post office. 2. a British financial system in which a bank or a post office transfers money from one account to another when they receive authorization to do so. 
GYRO: a Greek sandwich: sliced roast lamb with onion and tomato stuffed into pita bread
GIRRU: the Babylonian god of fire; often invoked in incantations against sorcery
GIRTH: the distance around a person's body
GYRUS: a convex fold or elevation in the surface of the brain
GITANA: a Spanish female Gypsy
GITANO: a Spanish male Gypsy
GIVE: 1. cause to have, in the abstract sense or physical sense. 2. transfer possession of something concrete or abstract to somebody. 3. convey or reveal information. 4. convey, as of a compliment, regards, attention, etc.; bestow. 5. convey or communicate; of a smile, a look, a physical gesture. 6. give as a present; make a gift of. 7. cause to happen or be responsible for. 8. dedicate. 9. leave with; give temporarily. 10. emit or utter. 11. give entirely to a specific person, activity, or cause. 12. give (as medicine). 13. give or convey physically. 14. bestow. 15. estimate the duration or outcome of something. 16. execute and deliver. 17. deliver in exchange or recompense. 18. present to view. 19. perform for an audience. 20. be flexible under stress of physical force. 21. propose. 22. accord by verdict. 23. manifest or show. 24. offer in good faith. 25. submit for consideration, judgment, or use. 26. guide or direct, as by behavior of persuasion. 27. allow to have or take. 28. inflict as a punishment. 29. occur. 30. consent to engage in sexual intercourse with a man. 31. proffer (a body part). 
GIVEN: acknowledged as a supposition
GIVER: someone who devotes himself completely
GIVING: 1. the act of giving. 2. the imparting of news or promises etc.. 3. disposing of property by voluntary transfer without receiving value in return. 
GIZA: an ancient Egyptian city on the west bank of the Nile opposite Cairo; site of three Great Pyramids and the Sphinx
GLAD: 1. showing or causing joy and pleasure; especially made happy. 2. eagerly disposed to act or to be of service. 3. feeling happy appreciation. 
GLADLY: in a willing manner
GLAMOR: alluring beauty or charm (often with sex-appeal)
GLANCE: 1. throw a glance at; take a brief look at. 2. hit at an angle. 
GLAND: any of various organs that synthesize substances needed by the body and release it through ducts or directly into the bloodstream
GLANS: a small rounded structure; especially that at the end of the penis or clitoris
GLARE: 1. a light within the field of vision that is brighter than the brightness to which the eyes are adapted. 2. be sharply reflected. 3. shine intensely. 
GLASS: 1. furnish with glass. 2. scan (game in the forest) with binoculars. 3. enclose with glass. 4. glassware collectively. 5. put in a glass container. 
GLASSY: 1. resembling glass in smoothness and shininess and slickness. 2. (used of eyes) lacking liveliness. 3. (of ceramics) having the surface made shiny and nonporous by fusing a vitreous solution to it. 
GLAUX: sea milkwort
GLAZE: 1. coat with a glaze. 2. become glassy or take on a glass-like appearance. 3. a coating for ceramics, metal, etc.. 
GLAZED: 1. fitted or covered with glass. 2. having a shiny surface or coating. 3. (of foods) covered with a shiny coating by applying e.g. beaten egg or a sugar or gelatin mixture. 
GLEAM: 1. an appearance of reflected light. 2. shine brightly, like a star or a light. 3. appear briefly. 
GLEBA: fleshy spore-bearing inner mass of e.g. a puffball or stinkhorn
GLEBE: plot of land belonging to an English parish church or an ecclesiastical office
GLEET: a thin morbid discharge as from a wound or especially chronic gonorrhea
GLEN: a narrow secluded valley (in the mountains)
GLIAL: of or relating to neuroglia
GLIB: 1. marked by lack of intellectual depth. 2. having only superficial plausibility. 3. artfully persuasive in speech. 
GLIBLY: with superficial plausibility
GLIDE: 1. cause to move or pass silently, smoothly, or imperceptibly. 2. move smoothly and effortlessly. 3. fly in or as if in a glider plane. 
GLIDER: aircraft supported only by the dynamic action of air against its surfaces
GLINKA: Russian composer (1804-1857)
GLINT: a spatially localized brightness
GLIOMA: a tumor of the brain consisting of neuroglia
GLYPH: glyptic art in the form of a symbolic figure carved or incised in relief
GLIS: type genus of the Gliridae
GLOAT: 1. dwell on with satisfaction. 2. gaze at or think about something with great self-satisfaction, gratification, or joy. 
GLOBAL: involving the entire earth; not limited or provincial in scope
GLOBE: a sphere on which a map (especially of the earth) is represented
GLOBIN: a colorless protein obtained by removing heme from hemoglobin; the oxygen carrying compound in red blood cells
GLOGG: Scandinavian punch made of claret and aquavit with spices and raisins and orange peel and sugar
GLOM: seize upon or latch onto something
GLOOM: 1. a state of partial or total darkness. 2. a feeling of melancholy apprehension. 3. an atmosphere of depression and melancholy. 
GLOOMY: filled with melancholy and despondency
GLOP: any gummy shapeless matter; usually unpleasant
GLORY: 1. rejoice proudly. 2. brilliant radiant beauty. 
GLOSS: 1. give a shine or gloss to, usually by rubbing. 2. provide interlinear explanations for words or phrases. 3. provide an interlinear translation of a word or phrase. 
GLOSSY: 1. a photograph that is printed on smooth shiny paper. 2. (of paper and fabric and leather) having a surface made smooth and glossy especially by pressing between rollers. 3. superficially attractive and stylish; suggesting wealth or expense. 
GLOVE: handwear: covers the hand and wrist
GLOVED: having the hands covered with gloves
GLOW: 1. be exuberant or high-spirited. 2. experience a feeling of well-being or happiness, as from good health or an intense emotion. 3. emit a steady even light without flames. 4. have a complexion with a strong bright color, such as red or pink. 
GLOWER: look at with a fixed gaze
GLUCK: German composer of more than 100 operas (1714-1787)
GLUE: 1. join or attach with or as if with glue. 2. be fixed as if by glue. 
GLUED: affixed or as if affixed with glue or paste
GLUEY: having the sticky properties of an adhesive
GLUG: make a gurgling sound as of liquid issuing from a bottle
GLUM: moody and melancholic
GLUME: small dry membranous bract found in inflorescences of Gramineae and Cyperaceae
GLUON: a gauge boson that mediates strong interaction among quarks
GLUT: the quality of being so overabundant that prices fall
GLUTEN: a protein substance that remains when starch is removed from cereal grains; gives cohesiveness to dough
G-MAN: a special law-enforcement agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation
GNARL: twist into a state of deformity
GNASH: grind together, of teeth
GNAT: 1. any of various small biting flies: midges; biting midges; black flies; sand flies. 2. (British usage) mosquito. 
GNAW: bite or chew on with the teeth
GNEISS: a laminated metamorphic rock similar to granite
GNETUM: small tropical tree with tiered branches and divaricate branchlets having broad glossy dark green leaves; exploited for its edible young leaves and seeds that provide a fine flour
GNOME: 1. a legendary creature resembling a tiny old man; lives in the depths of the earth and guards buried treasure. 2. a short pithy saying expressing a general truth. 
GNOMIC: relating to or containing gnomes
GNOMON: indicator provided by the stationary arm whose shadow indicates the time on the sundial
GNOSIS: intuitive knowledge of spiritual truths; said to have been possessed by ancient Gnostics
GNU: large African antelope having a head with horns like an ox and a long tufted tail
GO: 1. functioning correctly and ready for action. 2. a board game for two players who place counters on a grid; the object is to surround and so capture the opponent's counters. 3. follow a procedure or take a course. 4. move away from a place into another direction. 5. be awarded; be allotted. 6. be abolished or discarded. 7. be or continue to be in a certain condition. 8. pass, fare, or elapse; of a certain state of affairs or action. 9. be ranked or compare. 10. be contained in. 11. be sounded, played, or expressed. 12. lead, extend, or afford access. 13. be spent. 
GOA: a state of southwestern India; a former Portuguese colony
GOAD: 1. urge with or as if with a goad. 2. stab or urge on as if with a pointed stick. 
GOAL: 1. the state of affairs that a plan is intended to achieve and that (when achieved) terminates behavior intended to achieve it. 2. game equipment consisting of the place toward which players of a game try to advance a ball or puck in order to score points. 3. a successful attempt at scoring. 
GOAT: any of numerous agile ruminants related to sheep but having a beard and straight horns
GOATEE: a small chin beard trimmed to a point; named for its resemblance to a goat's beard
GOB: a lump of slimy stuff
GOBBET: a lump or chunk of raw meat
GOBBLE: 1. eat hastily without proper chewing. 2. make a gurgling sound, characteristic of turkeys. 
GOBI: a desert in central China
GOBY: small spiny-finned fish of coastal or brackish waters having a large head and elongated tapering body having the ventral fins modified as a sucker
GOBIO: true gudgeons
GOBLET: a drinking glass with a base and stem
GOBLIN: (folklore) a small grotesque supernatural creature that makes trouble for human beings
GOD: 1. the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions. 2. a man of such superior qualities that he seems like a deity to other people. 
GODARD: French film maker influenced by surrealism; early work explored the documentary use of film; noted for innovative techniques (born in 1930)
GODDAM: extremely
GODIVA: according to legend she rode naked through Coventry in order to persuade her husband not to tax the townspeople so heavily; the only person to look at her as she rode by was a man named Tom and Peeping Tom has become a synonym for voyeur (circa 1040-1080)
GODLY: showing great reverence for god
GODOWN: (in India and Malaysia) a warehouse
GODSON: a male godchild
GODWIT: large wading bird that resembles a curlew; has a long slightly upturned bill
GOFER: an employee whose duties include running errands
GOFFER: 1. a zealously energetic person (especially a salesman). 2. an iron used to press pleats and ridges. 3. an ornamental frill made by pressing pleats. 
GOGGLE: look with amazement; look stupidly
GOING: 1. advancing toward a goal. 2. in full operation. 
GOITER: abnormally enlarged thyroid gland; can result from underproduction or overproduction of hormone or from a deficiency of iodine in the diet
GOLD: 1. made from or covered with gold. 2. a soft yellow malleable ductile (trivalent and univalent) metallic element; occurs mainly as nuggets in rocks and alluvial deposits; does not react with most chemicals but is attacked by chlorine and aqua regia. 3. great wealth. 4. something likened to the metal in brightness or preciousness or superiority etc.. 
GOLDEN: 1. marked by peace and prosperity. 2. suggestive of gold. 3. presaging or likely to bring good luck. 
GOLEM: (Jewish folklore) an artificially created human being that is given life by supernatural means
GOLF: play golf
GOLFER: someone who plays the game of golf
GOLGI: Italian histologist noted for work on the structure of the nervous system and for his discovery of Golgi bodies (1844-1926)
GOMA: a city in eastern Congo at the northern end of Lake Kivu near the border with Rwanda
GONAD: a gland in which gametes (sex cells) are produced
GOND: a member of a formerly tribal people in south central India
GONDI: a Dravidian language spoken by the Gond in south central India
GONE: no longer retained
GONER: a person in desperate straits; someone doomed
GONG: sound a gong
GONIF: (Yiddish) a thief or dishonest person or scoundrel (often used as a general term of abuse)
GONION: the craniometric point on either side at the apex of the lower jaw
GOOD: 1. having desirable or positive qualities especially those suitable for a thing specified. 2. moral excellence or admirableness. 3. morally admirable. 4. agreeable or pleasing. 5. of moral excellence. 6. thorough. 7. most suitable or right for a particular purpose. 8. resulting favorably. 9. capable of pleasing. 10. appealing to the mind. 11. in excellent physical condition. 12. tending to promote physical well-being; beneficial to health. 13. not forged. 14. not left to spoil. 15. generally admired. 
GOODLY: large in amount or extent or degree
GOOEY: soft and sticky
GOOFY: a cartoon character created by Walt Disney
GOOGLY: a cricket ball bowled as if to break one way that actually breaks in the opposite way
GOOGOL: a cardinal number represented as 1 followed by 100 zeros (ten raised to the power of a hundred)
GOOK: (slang) a disparaging term for an Asian person (especially for North Vietnamese soldiers in the Vietnam War)
GOOSE: 1. pinch in the buttocks. 2. give a spurt of fuel to. 3. prod into action. 
GOPHER: burrowing rodent of the family Geomyidae having large external cheek pouches; of Central America and southwestern North America
GORAL: small goat antelope with small conical horns; of southern Asian mountains
GORE: 1. wound by piercing with a sharp or penetrating object or instrument. 2. cut into gores. 3. a piece of cloth that is generally triangular or tapering; used in making garments or umbrellas or sails. 
GORGE: overeat or eat immodestly; make a pig of oneself
GORGET: armor plate that protects the neck
GORGON: (Greek mythology) any of three winged sister monsters and the mortal Medusa who had live snakes for hair; a glance at Medusa turned the beholder to stone
GORY: accompanied by bloodshed
GORKY: Russian writer of plays and novels and short stories; noted for his depiction of social outcasts
GORSE: very spiny and dense evergreen shrub with fragrant golden-yellow flowers; common throughout western Europe
GOSPEL: 1. the four books in the New Testament (Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John) that tell the story of Christ's life and teachings. 2. an unquestionable truth. 3. folk music consisting of a genre of a cappella music originating with Black slaves in the United States and featuring call and response; influential on the development of other genres of popular music (especially soul). 4. a doctrine that is believed to be of great importance. 
GOSSIP: 1. a report (often malicious) about the behavior of other people. 2. a person given to gossiping and divulging personal information about others. 
GOTH: one of the Teutonic people who invaded the Roman Empire in the 3rd to 5th centuries
GOTHIC: 1. characteristic of the style of type commonly used for printing German. 2. of or relating to the language of the ancient Goths. 3. of or relating to the Goths. 4. characterized by gloom and mystery and the grotesque. 
GOUDA: mild cream-colored Dutch cheese shaped in balls
GOUGE: 1. and edge tool with a blade like a trough for cutting channels or grooves. 2. the act of gouging. 3. force with the thumb. 
GOUGER: an attacker who gouges out the antagonist's eye
GOURD: 1. bottle made from the dried shell of a bottle gourd. 2. any of numerous inedible fruits with hard rinds. 3. any vine of the family Cucurbitaceae that bears fruits with hard rinds. 
GOURDE: the basic unit of money in Haiti
GOUT: a painful inflammation of the big toe and foot caused by defects in uric acid metabolism resulting in deposits of the acid and its salts in the blood and joints
GOUTY: suffering from gout
GOVERN: 1. direct or strongly influence the behavior of. 2. exercise authority over; as of nations. 3. require to be in a certain grammatical case, voice, or mood. 
GOWN: 1. dress in a gown. 2. the members of a university as distinguished from the other residents of the town in which the university is located. 3. protective garment worn by surgeons during operations. 4. outerwear consisting of a long flowing garment used for official or ceremonial occasions. 
GOWNED: wearing a gown
GRAB: 1. a mechanical device for gripping an object. 2. make a grasping or snatching motion with the hand. 3. obtain illegally or unscrupulously. 4. take or grasp suddenly. 5. capture the attention or imagination of. 
GRACE: 1. (Christian theology) a state of sanctification by God; the state of one who is under such divine influence. 2. elegance and beauty of movement or expression. 3. a disposition to kindness and compassion. 4. (Greek mythology) one of three sisters who were the givers of beauty and charm; a favorite subject for sculptors. 5. a short prayer of thanks before a meal. 6. (Christian theology) the free and unmerited favor or beneficence of God. 
GRAD: one-hundredth of a right angle
GRADE: 1. level to the right gradient. 2. assign a grade or rank to, according to one's evaluation. 3. a degree of ablaut. 4. the height of the ground on which something stands. 5. a variety of cattle produced by crossbreeding with a superior breed. 6. determine the grade of or assign a grade to. 
GRADED: arranged in a sequence of grades or ranks
GRADER: a judge who assigns grades to something
GRAF: German tennis player who won seven women's singles titles at Wimbledon (born in 1969)
GRAFT: 1. cause to grow together parts from different plants. 2. the act of grafting something onto something else. 
GRAY: 1. a neutral achromatic color midway between white and black. 2. the SI unit of energy absorbed from ionizing radiation; equal to the absorption of one joule of radiation energy by one kilogram of matter; one gray equals 100 rad. 3. English radiobiologist in whose honor the gray (the SI unit of energy for the absorbed dose of radiation) was named (1905-1965). 4. English poet best known for his elegy written in a country churchyard (1716-1771). 5. American navigator who twice circumnavigated the globe and who discovered the Columbia River (1755-1806). 6. United States botanist who specialized in North American flora and who was an early supporter of Darwin's theories of evolution (1810-1888). 
GRAIL: 1. the object of any prolonged endeavor. 2. (legend) chalice used by Christ at the Last Supper. 
GRAYLY: having a grey appearance
GRAIN: 1. a relatively small granular particle of a substance. 2. paint (a surface) to make it look like stone or wood. 3. the side of leather from which the hair has been removed. 4. a weight unit used for pearls or diamonds: 50 mg or 1/4 carat. 5. 1/60 dram; equals an avoirdupois grain or 64.799 milligrams. 6. 1/7000 pound; equals a troy grain or 64.799 milligrams. 7. dry seed-like fruit produced by the cereal grasses: e.g. wheat, barley, Indian corn. 8. a cereal grass. 9. the smallest possible unit of anything. 10. the direction, texture, or pattern of fibers found in wood or leather or stone or in a woven fabric. 
GRAM: 1. a metric unit of weight equal to one thousandth of a kilogram. 2. Danish physician and bacteriologist who developed a method of staining bacteria to distinguish among them (1853-1938). 
GRAMA: pasture grass of plains of South America and western North America
GRAND: 1. large and impressive in physical size or extent. 2. the most important and magnificent in adornment. 
GRANGE: an outlying farm
GRANNY: an old woman
GRANT: 1. any monetary aid. 2. the act of providing a subsidy. 3. (law) a transfer of property by deed of conveyance. 4. Scottish painter; cousin of Lytton Strachey and member of the Bloomsbury Group (1885-1978). 5. bestow, especially officially. 6. 18th President of the United States; commander of the Union armies in the American Civil War (1822-1885). 7. a right or privilege that has been granted. 8. transfer by deed. 
GRAPE: 1. any of various juicy fruit of the genus Vitis with green or purple skins; grow in clusters. 2. any of numerous woody vines of genus Vitis bearing clusters of edible berries. 
GRAPEY: having a taste like that of grapes
GRAPH: 1. represent by means of a graph. 2. plot upon a graph. 
GRAPPA: Italian brandy made from residue of grapes after pressing
GRASP: hold firmly
GRASS: 1. shoot down, of birds. 2. cover with grass. 3. spread out clothes on the grass to let it dry and bleach. 4. cover with grass. 5. feed with grass. 
GRASSY: abounding in grass
GRATE: 1. furnish with a grate. 2. a harsh rasping sound made by scraping something. 3. reduce to small shreds or pulverize by rubbing against a rough or sharp perforated surface. 4. make a grating or grinding sound by rubbing together. 
GRATER: utensil with sharp perforations for shredding foods (as vegetables or cheese)
GRATIS: without payment
GRAVE: 1. dignified and somber in manner or character and committed to keeping promises. 2. a place for the burial of a corpse (especially beneath the ground and marked by a tombstone). 3. of great gravity or crucial import; requiring serious thought. 
GRAVEL: 1. rock fragments and pebbles. 2. cover with gravel. 
GRAVEN: cut into a desired shape
GRAVER: a tool used by an engraver
GRAVES: English writer known for his interest in mythology and in the classics (1895-1985)
GRAVY: 1. a sauce made by adding stock, flour, or other ingredients to the juice and fat that drips from cooking meats. 2. the seasoned but not thickened juices that drip from cooking meats; often a little water is added. 
GRAZ: an industrial city is southeastern Austria
GRAZE: 1. a superficial abrasion. 2. break the skin (of a body part) by scraping. 3. scrape gently. 
GRAZED: scraped or touched lightly in passing
GREASE: lubricate with grease
GREASY: 1. containing an unusual amount of grease or oil. 2. smeared or soiled with grease or oil. 
GREAT: 1. relatively large in size or number or extent; larger than others of its kind. 2. of major significance or importance. 3. remarkable or out of the ordinary in degree or magnitude or effect. 
GREAVE: armor plate that protects legs below the knee
GREBE: small compact-bodied almost completely aquatic bird that builds floating nests; similar to loons but smaller and with lobate rather than webbed feet
GREECE: 1. a republic in southeastern Europe on the southern part of the Balkan peninsula; known for grapes and olives and olive oil. 2. ancient Greece; a country of city-states (especially Athens and Sparta) that reached its peak in the fifth century BCE. 
GREED: excessive desire to acquire or possess more (especially more material wealth) than one needs or deserves
GREEDY: wanting to eat or drink more than one can reasonably consume
GREEK: 1. of or relating to or characteristic of Greece or the Greeks or the Greek language. 2. a native or inhabitant of Greece. 
GREEN: 1. of the color between blue and yellow in the color spectrum; similar to the color of fresh grass. 2. not fully developed or mature; not ripe. 3. looking pale and unhealthy. 4. a river that rises in western Wyoming and flows southward through Utah to become a tributary of the Colorado River. 5. an area of closely cropped grass surrounding the hole on a golf course. 6. concerned with or supporting or in conformity with the political principles of the Green Party. 
GREENE: English novelist and Catholic (1904-1991)
GREENS: any of various leafy plants or their leaves and stems eaten as vegetables
GREET: 1. express greetings upon meeting someone. 2. send greetings to. 3. react to in a certain way. 4. be perceived by. 
GREY: 1. of an achromatic color of any lightness intermediate between the extremes of white and black. 2. showing characteristics of age, especially having grey or white hair. 3. used to signify the Confederate forces in the American Civil War (who wore grey uniforms). 4. intermediate in character or position. 5. clothing that is a grey color. 6. horse of a light gray or whitish color. 
GREWIA: a genus of tropical and subtropical Old World climbers or shrubs or trees
GRID: 1. a pattern of regularly spaced horizontal and vertical lines. 2. a perforated or corrugated metal plate used in a storage battery as a conductor and support for the active material. 3. an electrode placed between the cathode and anode of a vacuum tube to control the flow of electrons through the tube. 4. a cooking utensil of parallel metal bars; used to grill fish or meat. 
GRIEF: 1. intense sorrow caused by loss of a loved one (especially by death). 2. something that causes great unhappiness. 
GRIEG: Norwegian composer whose work was often inspired by Norwegian folk music (1843-1907)
GRIEVE: 1. feel grief. 2. cause to feel sorrow. 
GRIGRI: an African amulet
GRILL: 1. examine thoroughly. 2. cook over a grill. 
GRILLE: grating that admits cooling air to car's radiator
GRIM: not to be placated or appeased or moved by entreaty
GRIMLY: in a grim implacable manner
GRIMM: 1. the younger of the two Grimm brothers remembered best for their fairy stories (1786-1859). 2. the older of the two Grimm brothers remembered best for their fairy stories; also author of Grimm's law describing consonant changes in Germanic languages (1785-1863). 
GRIN: to draw back the lips and reveal the teeth, in a smile, grimace, or snarl
GRIND: 1. the grade of particle fineness to which a substance is ground. 2. dance by rotating the pelvis in an erotically suggestive way, often while in contact with one's partner such that the dancers' legs are interlaced. 3. reduce to small pieces or particles by pounding or abrading. 4. created by grinding. 5. shape or form by grinding. 
GRINGO: a Latin American (disparaging) term for foreigners (especially Americans and Englishmen)
GRIOT: a storyteller in West Africa; perpetuates the oral traditions of a family or village
GRIP: 1. the friction between a body and the surface on which it moves (as between an automobile tire and the road). 2. worker who moves the camera around while a film or television show is being made. 3. an intellectual hold or understanding. 4. hold fast or firmly. 
GRIPE: complain
GRISON: carnivore of Central America and South America resembling a weasel with a greyish-white back and dark underparts
GRIST: grain intended to be or that has been ground
GRIT: 1. cover with a grit. 2. clench together. 
GRITS: coarsely ground hulled corn boiled as a breakfast dish in the southern United States
GRIVET: white and olive green East African monkey with long white tufts of hair beside the face
GROAN: indicate pain, discomfort, or displeasure
GROATS: the hulled and crushed grain of various cereals
GROCER: a retail merchant who sells foodstuffs (and some household supplies)
GROG: rum cut with water
GROIN: 1. build with groins. 2. a curved edge formed by two intersecting vaults. 
GROOM: 1. a man participant in his own marriage ceremony. 2. care for one's external appearance. 
GROOVE: 1. make a groove in, or provide with a groove. 2. (anatomy) any furrow or channel on a bodily structure or part. 
GROOVY: (British informal) very chic
GROPE: 1. feel about uncertainly or blindly. 2. search blindly or uncertainly. 3. fondle for sexual pleasure. 
GROSS: 1. before any deductions. 2. lacking fine distinctions or detail. 3. repellently fat. 
GROSZ: 100 groszy equal 1 zloty in Poland
GROTTY: very unpleasant or offensive
GROTTO: a small cave (usually with attractive features)
GROUCH: show one's unhappiness or critical attitude
GROUND: 1. bring to the ground. 2. hit a groundball. 3. hit onto the ground. 4. (art) the surface (as a wall or canvas) prepared to take the paint for a painting. 5. confine or restrict to the ground. 6. place or put on the ground. 7. instruct someone in the fundamentals of a subject. 8. hit or reach the ground. 9. throw to the ground in order to stop play and avoid being tackled behind the line of scrimmage. 10. connect to a ground. 
GROUP: 1. arrange into a group or groups. 2. form a group or group together. 3. a set that is closed, associative, has an identity element and every element has an inverse. 
GROUSE: 1. hunt grouse. 2. popular game bird having a plump body and feathered legs and feet. 
GROUT: bind with grout
GROVE: 1. a small growth of trees without underbrush. 2. garden consisting of a small cultivated wood without undergrowth. 
GROW: 1. become larger, greater, or bigger; expand or gain. 2. increase in size by natural process. 3. cause to grow or develop. 4. cultivate by growing, often involving improvements by means of agricultural techniques. 5. come to have or undergo a change of (physical features and attributes). 6. become attached by or as if by the process of growth. 
GROWL: the sound of growling (as made by animals)
GROWTH: 1. (biology) the process of an individual organism growing organically; a purely biological unfolding of events involved in an organism changing gradually from a simple to a more complex level. 2. a progression from simpler to more complex forms. 3. vegetation that has grown. 4. (pathology) an abnormal proliferation of tissue (as in a tumor). 5. something grown or growing. 
GROZNY: the capital of Chechnya in southwestern Russia; center of extensive oil fields
GRUB: search about busily
GRUBBY: infested with grubs
GRUDGE: 1. a resentment strong enough to justify retaliation. 2. accept or admit unwillingly. 
GRUEL: a thin porridge (usually oatmeal or cornmeal)
GRUFF: deep and harsh sounding as if from shouting or illness or emotion
GRUGRU: tropical American feather palm having a swollen spiny trunk and edible nuts
GRUME: a thick viscous liquid
GRUNT: 1. issue a grunting, low, animal-like noise. 2. an unskilled or low-ranking soldier or other worker. 3. medium-sized tropical marine food fishes that utter grunting sounds when caught. 
GRUS: 1. a small constellation in the southern hemisphere near Phoenix. 2. type genus of the Gruidae: typical cranes. 
GUAM: the largest and southernmost island in the Marianas which is administered as a territory of the United States; it was ceded by Spain to the United States in 1898
GUAMA: tropical tree of Central America and West Indies and Puerto Rico having spikes of white flowers; used as shade for coffee plantations
GUAN: any of several large turkey-like game birds of the family Cracidae; native to jungles of tropical America; resembling the curassows and valued as food
GUANO: the excrement of sea birds; used as fertilizer
GUAR: drought-tolerant herb grown for forage and for its seed which yield a gum used as a thickening agent or sizing material
GUARD: 1. to keep watch over. 2. watch over or shield from danger or harm; protect. 3. a device designed to prevent injury or accidents. 4. take precautions in order to avoid some unwanted consequence. 5. the person who plays the position of guard on a basketball team. 6. a military unit serving to protect some place or person. 7. (American football) a position on the line of scrimmage. 8. a position on a basketball team. 
GUAVA: 1. small tropical shrubby tree bearing small yellowish fruit. 2. small tropical American shrubby tree; widely cultivated in warm regions for its sweet globular yellow fruit. 3. tropical fruit having yellow skin and pink pulp; eaten fresh or used for e.g. jellies. 
GUENON: small slender African monkey having long hind limbs and tail and long hair around the face
GUESS: 1. a message expressing an opinion based on incomplete evidence. 2. put forward, of a guess, in spite of possible refutation. 3. guess correctly; solve by guessing. 
GUEST: 1. a visitor to whom hospitality is extended. 2. United States journalist (born in England) noted for his syndicated homey verse (1881-1959). 3. a customer of a hotel or restaurant etc.. 
GUFFAW: laugh boisterously
GUGGLE: 1. make a sound like a liquid that is being poured from a bottle. 2. drink from a flask with a gurgling sound. 
GUY: 1. an informal term for a youth or man. 2. steady or support with a guy wire or cable. 3. a cable, wire, or rope that is used to brace something (especially a tent). 
GUIANA: a geographical region of northeastern South America including Guyana and Surinam
GUYANA: a republic in northeastern South America; formerly part of the British Empire, but it achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1966
GUIDE: 1. someone who shows the way by leading or advising. 2. a structure or marking that serves to direct the motion or positioning of something. 3. be a guiding or motivating force or drive. 4. use as a guide. 5. pass over, across, or through. 
GUIDED: subject to guidance or control especially after launching
GUILT: 1. the state of having committed an offense. 2. remorse caused by feeling responsible for some offense. 
GUILTY: 1. responsible for or chargeable with a reprehensible act. 2. showing a sense of guilt. 
GUIMPE: 1. a piece of starched cloth covering the shoulders of a nun's habit. 2. a short blouse with sleeves that is worn under a jumper or pinafore dress. 
GUINEA: 1. a former British gold coin worth 21 shillings. 2. a republic in western Africa on the Atlantic; formerly a French colony; achieved independence from France in 1958. 
GUYOT: a seamount of volcanic origin (especially in the Pacific Ocean)
GUISE: an artful or simulated semblance
GUITAR: a stringed instrument usually having six strings; played by strumming or plucking
GULAG: a Russian prison camp for political prisoners
GULCH: a narrow gorge with a stream running through it
GULF: 1. an arm of a sea or ocean partly enclosed by land; larger than a bay. 2. an unbridgeable disparity (as from a failure of understanding). 3. a deep wide chasm. 
GULL: fool or hoax
GULLY: deep ditch cut by running water (especially after a prolonged downpour)
GULO: a genus of Mustelidae
GULP: 1. to swallow hurriedly or greedily or in one draught. 2. utter or make a noise, as when swallowing too quickly. 
GULPER: a drinker who swallows large amounts greedily
GUM: 1. become sticky. 2. cover, fill, fix or smear with or as if with gum. 3. exude or form gum. 
GUMBO: 1. any of various fine-grained silty soils that become waxy and very sticky mud when saturated with water. 2. long mucilaginous green pods; may be simmered or sauteed but used especially in soups and stews. 3. a soup or stew thickened with okra pods. 
GUMMA: a small rubbery granuloma that is characteristic of an advanced stage of syphilis
GUMMED: covered with adhesive gum
GUN: 1. shoot with a gun. 2. the discharge of a firearm as signal or as a salute in military ceremonies. 
GUNITE: a mixture of cement and sand and water that is sprayed on a surface under pneumatic pressure
GUNMAN: 1. a professional killer who uses a gun. 2. a person who shoots a gun (as regards their ability). 
GUNNEL: small eellike fishes common in shallow waters of the northern Atlantic
GUPPY: small freshwater fish of South America and the West Indies; often kept in aquariums
GUR: a group of Niger-Congo languages spoken primarily in southeastern Mali and northern Ghana
GURGLE: 1. the bubbling sound of water flowing from a bottle with a narrow neck. 2. make sounds similar to gurgling water. 3. utter with a gurgling sound. 
GURKHA: 1. a member of the Nepalese force that has been part of the British army for 200 years; known for fierceness in combat. 2. a member of Hindu people descended from brahmins and Rajputs who live in Nepal. 
GURNEY: a metal stretcher with wheels
GURU: 1. a Hindu or Buddhist religious leader and spiritual teacher. 2. each of the first ten leaders of the Sikh religion. 3. a recognized leader in some field or of some movement. 
GUSHER: an oil well with a strong natural flow so that pumping is not necessary
GUSSET: 1. a metal plate used to strengthen a joist. 2. a piece of material used to strengthen or enlarge a garment. 
GUST: a strong current of air
GUSTY: blowing in puffs or short intermittent blasts
GUSTO: vigorous and enthusiastic enjoyment
GUT: 1. remove the guts of. 2. empty completely; destroy the inside of. 
GUTSY: marked by courage and determination in the face of difficulties or danger; robust and uninhibited; it was a gutsy thing to do"
GUTTER: 1. burn unsteadily, feebly, or low; flicker. 2. flow in small streams. 3. wear or cut gutters into. 4. provide with gutters. 
GUZZLE: drink greedily or as if with great thirst
GWYN: Celtic underworld god
GWYNN: English comedienne and mistress of Charles II (1650-1687)
HABER: German chemist noted for the synthetic production of ammonia from the nitrogen in air (1868-1934)
HABIT: 1. put a habit on. 2. (psychology) an automatic pattern of behavior in reaction to a specific situation; may be inherited or acquired through frequent repetition. 3. a distinctive attire worn by a member of a religious order. 4. the general form or mode of growth (especially of a plant or crystal). 5. attire that is typically worn by a horseback rider (especially a woman's attire). 
HACEK: a diacritical mark (an inverted circumflex) placed above certain letters (such as the letter c) to indicate pronunciation
HACK: 1. one who works hard at boring tasks. 2. cut away. 3. kick on the arms. 4. fix a computer program piecemeal until it works. 5. significantly cut up a manuscript. 6. cough spasmodically. 7. be able to manage or manage successfully. 8. kick on the shins. 
HACKER: 1. someone who plays golf poorly. 2. a programmer who breaks into computer systems in order to steal or change or destroy information as a form of cyber-terrorism. 3. a programmer for whom computing is its own reward; may enjoy the challenge of breaking into other computers but does no harm. 
HACKLE: long slender feather on the necks of e.g. turkeys and pheasants
HADAL: relating to the deepest parts of the ocean (below 6000 meters)
HADEAN: of or relating to or characteristic of Hades or Tartarus
HADITH: (Islam) a tradition based on reports of the sayings and activities of Muhammad and his companions
HADRON: any elementary particle that interacts strongly with other particles
HAFT: the handle of a weapon or tool
HAG: an ugly evil-looking old woman
HAGGAI: 1. a Hebrew minor prophet. 2. an Old Testament book telling the prophecies of Haggai which are concerned mainly with rebuilding the temples after the Babylonian Captivity. 
HAGGIS: made of sheep's or calf's viscera minced with oatmeal and suet and onions and boiled in the animal's stomach
HAGGLE: wrangle (over a price, terms of an agreement, etc.)
HAHN: German chemist who was co-discoverer with Lise Meitner of nuclear fission (1879-1968)
HAY: convert (plant material) into hay
HAIDA: 1. a member of a seafaring group of North American Indians who lived on the Pacific coast of British Columbia and southwestern Alaska. 2. the Na-Dene language of the Haida. 
HAYDN: 1. prolific Austrian composer who influenced the classical form of the symphony (1732-1809). 2. the music of Haydn. 
HAYING: 1. the harvesting of hay. 2. the season for cutting and drying and storing grass as fodder. 
HAIK: an outer garment consisting of a large piece of white cloth; worn by men and women in northern Africa
HAIKU: an epigrammatic Japanese verse form of three short lines
HAIL: 1. precipitation of ice pellets when there are strong rising air currents. 2. be a native of. 3. call for. 4. greet enthusiastically or joyfully. 5. precipitate as small ice particles. 
HAYMOW: a mass of hay piled up in a barn for preservation
HAIR: 1. a covering for the body (or parts of it) consisting of a dense growth of threadlike structures (as on the human head); helps to prevent heat loss. 2. filamentous hairlike growth on a plant. 3. any of the cylindrical filaments characteristically growing from the epidermis of a mammal. 4. a filamentous projection or process on an organism. 
HAIRDO: the arrangement of the hair (especially a woman's hair)
HAIRY: 1. having or covered with hair. 2. hazardous and frightening. 
HAITI: a republic in the West Indies on the western part of the island of Hispaniola; achieved independence from France in 1804; the poorest and most illiterate nation in the western hemisphere
HAJJ: the fifth pillar of Islam is a pilgrimage to Mecca during the month of Dhu al-Hijja; at least once in a lifetime a Muslim is expected to make a religious journey to Mecca and the Kaaba
HAJJI: 1. a general term used by foreign soldiers to refer to the Iraqi people. 2. an Arabic term of respect for someone who has made the pilgrimage to Mecca. 
HAKE: 1. the lean flesh of a fish similar to cod. 2. any of several marine food fishes related to cod. 
HAKEA: Australian shrubs and small trees with evergreen usually spiny leaves and dense clusters of showy flowers
HAKIM: 1. a Muslim ruler or governor or judge. 2. a Muslim physician. 
HAKKA: 1. a member of a people of southeastern China (especially Hong Kong, Canton, and Taiwan) who migrated from the north in the 12th century. 2. a dialect of Chinese spoken in southeastern China by the Hakka. 
HALAL: 1. proper or legitimate. 2. conforming to dietary laws. 
HALE: 1. exhibiting or restored to vigorous good health. 2. United States astronomer who discovered that sunspots are associated with strong magnetic fields (1868-1938). 3. prolific United States writer (1822-1909). 
HALER: 1. 100 halers equal 1 koruna Slovakia. 2. 100 halers equal 1 koruna in Czech Republic. 
HALEVY: French operatic composer (1799-1862)
HALF: 1. partial. 2. partially or to the extent of a half. 3. (of siblings) related through one parent only. 
HALIDE: a salt of any halogen acid
HALITE: naturally occurring crystalline sodium chloride
HALL: 1. a large room for gatherings or entertainment. 2. English writer whose novel about a lesbian relationship was banned in Britain for many years (1883-1943). 3. United States child psychologist whose theories of child psychology strongly influenced educational psychology (1844-1924). 4. United States chemist who developed an economical method of producing aluminum from bauxite (1863-1914). 5. United States explorer who led three expeditions to the Arctic (1821-1871). 6. United States astronomer who discovered Phobos and Deimos (the two satellites of Mars) (1829-1907). 7. a large building used by a college or university for teaching or research. 8. a large building for meetings or entertainment. 
HALLE: a city in the Saxony region of Germany on the Saale River; a member of the Hanseatic League during the 13th and 14th centuries
HALLEY: English astronomer who used Newton's laws of motion to predict the period of a comet (1656-1742)
HALLEL: (Judaism) a chant of praise (Psalms 113 through 118) used at Passover and Shabuoth and Sukkoth and Hanukkah and Rosh Hodesh
HALLOO: 1. urge on with shouts. 2. shout `halloo', as when greeting someone or attracting attention. 
HALMA: a board game in which players try to move their pieces into their opponent's bases
HALO: a circle of light around the sun or moon
HALS: Dutch portrait and genre painter who endowed his portraits with vitality and humor (1580?-1666)
HALT: cause to stop
HALTER: 1. hang with a halter. 2. a woman's top that fastens behind the back and neck leaving the back and arms uncovered. 3. either of the rudimentary hind wings of dipterous insects; used for maintaining equilibrium during flight. 
HALVE: divide by two; divide into halves
HAM: 1. meat cut from the thigh of a hog (usually smoked). 2. (Old Testament) son of Noah. 3. a licensed amateur radio operator. 4. an unskilled actor who overacts. 
HAMAN: (Old Testament) the minister of the Persian emperor who hated the Jews and was hanged for plotting to massacre them
HAMATE: the wrist bone in line with the 4th and 5th fingers
HAME: stable gear consisting of either of two curved supports that are attached to the collar of a draft horse and that hold the traces
HAMELN: a town in northern Germany (near Hanover) that is famous as the setting for the legend of the Pied Piper
HAMLET: 1. a community of people smaller than a village. 2. the hero of William Shakespeare's tragedy who hoped to avenge the murder of his father. 
HAMMER: 1. beat with or as if with a hammer. 2. a hand tool with a heavy rigid head and a handle; used to deliver an impulsive force by striking. 3. a heavy metal sphere attached to a flexible wire; used in the hammer throw. 4. a striker that is covered in felt and that causes the piano strings to vibrate. 5. a power tool for drilling rocks. 6. the act of pounding (delivering repeated heavy blows). 
HAMMY: affectedly dramatic; overacted
HAMPER: 1. a basket usually with a cover. 2. prevent the progress or free movement of. 
HAMSUN: Norwegian writer of novels (1859-1952)
HAN: imperial dynasty that ruled China (most of the time from 206 BC to AD 220) and expanded its boundaries and developed its bureaucracy; remembered as one of the great eras of Chinese civilization
HAND: 1. the (prehensile) extremity of the superior limb. 2. ability. 3. a position given by its location to the side of an object. 4. the cards held in a card game by a given player at any given time. 5. one of two sides of an issue. 6. a rotating pointer on the face of a timepiece. 7. a unit of length equal to 4 inches; used in measuring horses. 8. a member of the crew of a ship. 9. a round of applause to signify approval. 10. terminal part of the forelimb in certain vertebrates (e.g. apes or kangaroos). 11. physical assistance. 12. guide or conduct or usher somewhere. 
HANDED: having or involving the use of hands
HANDEL: 1. a prolific British baroque composer (born in Germany) remembered best for his oratorio Messiah (1685-1759). 2. the music of Handel. 
HANDY: 1. easy to reach. 2. easy to use. 3. skillful with the hands. 
HANDLE: 1. the appendage to an object that is designed to be held in order to use or move it. 2. touch, lift, or hold with the hands. 3. show and train. 
HANDS: (with `in') guardianship over; in divorce cases it is the right to house and care for and discipline a child
HANG: 1. cause to be hanging or suspended. 2. kill by hanging. 3. be suspended or hanging. 4. let drop or droop. 5. fall or flow in a certain way. 6. be menacing, burdensome, or oppressive. 7. be suspended or poised. 8. be exhibited. 9. prevent from reaching a verdict, of a jury. 10. decorate or furnish with something suspended. 11. be placed in position as by a hinge. 12. place in position as by a hinge so as to allow free movement in one direction. 13. suspend (meat) in order to get a gamey taste. 
HANGER: 1. a worker who hangs something. 2. anything from which something can be hung. 
HANK: a coil of rope or wool or yarn
HANKER: desire strongly or persistently
HANOI: the capital city of Vietnam; located in North Vietnam
HANSOM: a two-wheeled horse-drawn covered carriage with the driver's seat above and behind the passengers
HAP: an accidental happening
HAPLY: by accident
HAPPEN: 1. come to pass. 2. happen, occur, or be the case in the course of events or by chance. 3. chance to be or do something, without intention or causation. 4. come into being; become reality. 
HAPPY: 1. enjoying or showing or marked by joy or pleasure. 2. well expressed and to the point. 
HAPTIC: of or relating to or proceeding from the sense of touch
HARARE: the capital and largest city of Zimbabwe
HARASS: 1. annoy continually or chronically. 2. exhaust by attacking repeatedly. 
HARBOR: 1. secretly shelter (as of fugitives or criminals). 2. maintain (a theory, thoughts, or feelings). 3. keep in one's possession; of animals. 4. hold back a thought or feeling about. 
HARD: 1. with firmness. 2. earnestly or intently. 3. causing great damage or hardship. 4. into a solid condition. 5. very near or close in space or time. 6. to the full extent possible; all the way. 7. unfortunate or hard to bear. 8. dried out. 9. with effort or force or vigor. 10. slowly and with difficulty. 11. with pain or distress or bitterness. 
HARDEN: 1. become hard or harder. 2. make hard or harder. 
HARDY: 1. having rugged physical strength; inured to fatigue or hardships. 2. able to survive under unfavorable weather conditions. 
HARDLY: almost not
HARE: run quickly, like a hare
HAREM: living quarters reserved for wives and concubines and female relatives in a Muslim household
HARK: listen; used mostly in the imperative
HARLEM: a district of Manhattan; now largely a Black ghetto
HARM: cause or do harm to
HARP: 1. come back to. 2. play the harp. 
HARPY: 1. (Greek mythology) vicious winged monster; often depicted as a bird with the head of a woman. 2. any of various fruit bats of the genus Nyctimene distinguished by nostrils drawn out into diverging tubes. 3. large black-and-white crested eagle of tropical America. 
HARRY: make a pillaging or destructive raid on (a place), as in wartimes
HARROD: 1. English merchant who expanded his father's shop in London into a prestigious department store (1841-1905). 2. English merchant who took over a shop in London that was expanded by his son into a prestigious department store (1800-1885). 
HARROW: draw a harrow over (land)
HARSH: 1. unpleasantly stern. 2. disagreeable to the senses. 3. unkind or cruel or uncivil. 4. severe. 5. sharply disagreeable; rigorous. 
HART: 1. United States playwright who collaborated with George S. Kaufman (1904-1961). 2. United States lyricist who collaborated with Richard Rodgers (1895-1943). 3. a male deer, especially an adult male red deer. 
HARVEY: English physician and scientist who described the circulation of the blood; he later proposed that all animals originate from an ovum produced by the female of the species (1578-1657)
HASEK: Czech author of novels and short stories (1883-1923)
HASH: chop up
HASID: a member of a Jewish sect that observes a form of strict Orthodox Judaism
HASLET: heart and liver and other edible viscera especially of hogs; usually chopped and formed into a loaf and braised
HASP: secure or lock with a hasp
HASSEL: Norwegian chemist noted for his research on organic molecules (1897-1981)
HASSLE: disorderly fighting
HASTE: 1. overly eager speed (and possible carelessness). 2. the act of moving hurriedly and in a careless manner. 
HASTY: 1. excessively quick. 2. done with very great haste and without due deliberation. 
HAT: 1. put on or wear a hat. 2. furnish with a hat. 
HATBOX: a round piece of luggage for carrying hats
HATCH: 1. emerge from the eggs. 2. shading consisting of multiple crossing lines. 3. inlay with narrow strips or lines of a different substance such as gold or silver, for the purpose of decorating. 4. draw, cut, or engrave lines, usually parallel, on metal, wood, or paper. 
HATE: dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards
HATER: a person who hates
HATFUL: as many or as much as a hat will hold
HATPIN: a long sturdy pin used by women to secure a hat to their hair
HATTED: wearing a hat or a hat of a particular kind
HAUL: 1. draw slowly or heavily. 2. transport in a vehicle. 
HAULER: a haulage contractor
HAULM: stems of beans and peas and potatoes and grasses collectively as used for thatching and bedding
HAUNCH: 1. the hip and buttock and upper thigh in human beings. 2. the loin and leg of a quadruped. 
HAUNT: 1. follow stealthily or recur constantly and spontaneously to. 2. haunt like a ghost; pursue. 
HAUSA: 1. a member of a Negroid people living chiefly in northern Nigeria. 2. the chief member of the Chadic family of Afroasiatic languages; widely used as a trading language. 
HAVANA: the capital and largest city of Cuba; located in western Cuba; one of the oldest cities in the Americas
HAVE: 1. have or possess, either in a concrete or an abstract sense. 2. have as a feature. 3. have a personal or business relationship with someone. 4. have left. 5. be confronted with. 6. undergo. 7. suffer from; be ill with. 8. achieve a point or goal. 
HAVEL: Czech dramatist and statesman whose plays opposed totalitarianism and who served as president of Czechoslovakia from 1989 to 1992 and president of the Czech Republic since 1993 (born in 1936)
HAVEN: a shelter serving as a place of safety or sanctuary
HAVOC: violent and needless disturbance
HAW: 1. the nictitating membrane of a horse. 2. utter `haw'. 
HAWAII: 1. a state in the United States in the central Pacific on the Hawaiian Islands. 2. the largest and southernmost of the Hawaii islands; has several volcanic peaks. 
HAWK: 1. diurnal bird of prey typically having short rounded wings and a long tail. 2. hunt with hawks. 
HAWSE: the hole that an anchor rope passes through
HAWSER: large heavy rope for nautical use
HAZARD: 1. a source of danger; a possibility of incurring loss or misfortune. 2. an obstacle on a golf course. 
HAZE: 1. become hazy, dull, or cloudy. 2. harass by imposing humiliating or painful tasks, as in military institutions. 
HAZEL: 1. of a light brown or yellowish brown color. 2. the fine-grained wood of a hazelnut tree (genus Corylus) and the hazel tree (Australian genus Pomaderris). 3. a shade of brown that is yellowish or reddish; it is a greenish shade of brown when used to describe the color of someone's eyes. 
HAZILY: 1. through a haze. 2. in an indistinct way. 
HEAD: 1. to go or travel towards. 2. be in charge of. 3. be the first or leading member of (a group) and excel. 4. the front of a military formation or procession. 5. take its rise. 6. be in the front of or on top of. 7. remove the head of. 8. the tip of an abscess (where the pus accumulates). 9. the length or height based on the size of a human or animal head. 10. an individual person. 11. a user of (usually soft) drugs. 12. a rounded compact mass. 13. the foam or froth that accumulates at the top when you pour an effervescent liquid into a container. 14. the rounded end of a bone that fits into a rounded cavity in another bone to form a joint. 15. that part of a skeletal muscle that is away from the bone that it moves. 16. (usually plural) the obverse side of a coin that usually bears the representation of a person's head. 17. the striking part of a tool. 18. (nautical) a toilet on board a boat or ship. 19. a projection out from one end. 20. form a head or come or grow to a head. 
HEADED: 1. having a heading or course in a certain direction. 2. having a heading or caption. 3. having a head of a specified kind or anything that serves as a head; often used in combination. 4. of leafy vegetables; having formed into a head. 
HEADER: 1. horizontal beam used as a finishing piece over a door or window. 2. brick that is laid sideways at the top of a wall. 3. a framing member crossing and supporting the ends of joists, studs, or rafters so as to transfer their weight to parallel joists, studs, or rafters. 4. a machine that cuts the heads off grain and moves them into a wagon. 5. (soccer) the act of hitting the ball with your head. 6. a headlong jump (or fall). 
HEADY: extremely exciting as if by alcohol or a narcotic
HEAL: get healthy again
HEALTH: 1. a healthy state of wellbeing free from disease. 2. the general condition of body and mind. 
HEAP: 1. bestow in large quantities. 2. fill to overflow. 
HEAPS: very much
HEAR: 1. perceive (sound) via the auditory sense. 2. examine or hear (evidence or a case) by judicial process. 3. receive a communication from someone. 
HEARD: detected or perceived by the sense of hearing
HEARER: someone who listens attentively
HEARSE: a vehicle for carrying a coffin to a church or a cemetery; formerly drawn by horses but now usually a motor vehicle
HEART: 1. the locus of feelings and intuitions. 2. the hollow muscular organ located behind the sternum and between the lungs; its rhythmic contractions move the blood through the body. 3. the courage to carry on. 4. an inclination or tendency of a certain kind. 5. a plane figure with rounded sides curving inward at the top and intersecting at the bottom; conventionally used on playing cards and valentines. 6. a firm rather dry variety meat (usually beef or veal). 7. a playing card in the major suit that has one or more red hearts on it. 
HEARTH: 1. home symbolized as a part of the fireplace. 2. an area near a fireplace (usually paved and extending out into a room). 
HEARTY: 1. showing warm and heartfelt friendliness. 2. providing abundant nourishment. 3. endowed with or exhibiting great bodily or mental health. 4. consuming abundantly and with gusto. 5. without reservation. 
HEARTS: a form of whist in which players avoid winning tricks containing hearts or the queen of spades
HEAT: 1. make hot or hotter. 2. the sensation caused by heat energy. 3. gain heat or get hot. 4. a preliminary race in which the winner advances to a more important race. 5. provide with heat. 
HEATED: 1. made warm or hot (`het' is a dialectal variant of `heated'). 2. marked by emotional heat; vehement. 
HEATER: device that heats water or supplies warmth to a room
HEATH: 1. a low evergreen shrub of the family Ericaceae; has small bell-shaped pink or purple flowers. 2. a tract of level wasteland; uncultivated land with sandy soil and scrubby vegetation. 
HEAUME: a large medieval helmet supported on the shoulders
HEAVE: 1. utter a sound, as with obvious effort. 2. throw with great effort. 3. the act of lifting something with great effort. 4. lift or elevate. 5. throwing something heavy (with great effort). 6. move or cause to move in a specified way, direction, or position. 7. bend out of shape, as under pressure or from heat. 
HEAVEN: the abode of God and the angels
HEAVER: 1. a bar used as a lever (as in twisting rope). 2. a workman who heaves freight or bulk goods (especially at a dockyard). 
HEAVES: a chronic emphysema of the horse that causes difficult expiration and heaving of the flanks
HEAVY: 1. slowly as if burdened by much weight. 2. unusually great in degree or quantity or number. 3. of the military or industry; using (or being) the heaviest and most powerful armaments or weapons or equipment. 4. marked by great psychological weight; weighted down especially with sadness or troubles or weariness. 5. darkened by clouds. 6. of great intensity or power or force. 7. (physics, chemistry) being or containing an isotope with greater than average atomic mass or weight. 8. (of an actor or role) being or playing the villain. 9. of relatively large extent and density. 10. made of fabric having considerable thickness. 11. full and loud and deep. 12. slow and laborious because of weight. 13. large and powerful; especially designed for heavy loads or rough work. 14. dense or inadequately leavened and hence likely to cause distress in the alimentary canal. 15. sharply inclined. 16. full of; bearing great weight. 17. requiring or showing effort. 18. lacking lightness or liveliness. 19. (of sleep) deep and complete. 
HEBREW: the ancient Canaanitic language of the Hebrews that has been revived as the official language of Israel
HECATE: (Greek mythology) Greek goddess of fertility who later became associated with Persephone as goddess of the underworld and protector of witches
HECKLE: 1. comb with a heckle. 2. challenge aggressively. 
HECTOR: (Greek mythology) a mythical Trojan who was killed by Achilles during the Trojan War
HEDERA: Old World woody vines
HEDGE: 1. avoid or try to avoid fulfilling, answering, or performing (duties, questions, or issues). 2. hinder or restrict with or as if with a hedge. 3. enclose or bound in with or as it with a hedge or hedges. 4. minimize loss or risk. 
HEDGED: evasively worded in order to avoid an unqualified statement
HEDGER: 1. a respondent who avoids giving a clear direct answer. 2. someone who counterbalances one transaction (as a bet) against another in order to protect against loss. 3. a gardener who takes care of and trims hedges. 
HEED: pay close attention to; give heed to
HEEL: 1. the bottom of a shoe or boot; the back part of a shoe or boot that touches the ground and provides elevation. 2. follow at the heels of a person. 3. strike with the heel of the club. 4. put a new heel on. 5. (golf) the part of the clubhead where it joins the shaft. 6. perform with the heels. 
HEFT: 1. the property of being large in mass. 2. test the weight of something by lifting it. 
HEFTY: of considerable weight and size
HEGARI: Sudanese sorghums having white seeds; one variety grown in southwestern United States
HEGIRA: the flight of Muhammad from Mecca to Medina in 622 which marked the beginning of the Muslim era; the Muslim calendar begins in that year
HEIFER: young cow
HEIGHT: the vertical dimension of extension; distance from the base of something to the top
HEIR: a person who is entitled by law or by the terms of a will to inherit the estate of another
HEYSE: German writer (1830-1914)
HEIST: the act of stealing
HEJAZ: a coastal region of the western Arabian Peninsula bordering on the Red Sea; includes both Mecca and Medina; formerly an independent kingdom until it united with Nejd to form the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
HELD: occupied or in the control of; often used in combination
HELEN: (Greek mythology) the beautiful daughter of Zeus and Leda who was abducted by Paris; the Greek army sailed to Troy to get her back which resulted in the Trojan War
HELENA: capital of the state of Montana; located in western Montana
HELIOS: (Greek mythology) ancient god of the sun; drove his chariot across the sky each day; identified with Roman Sol
HELIUM: a very light colorless element that is one of the six inert gasses; the most difficult gas to liquefy; occurs in economically extractable amounts in certain natural gases (as those found in Texas and Kansas)
HELIX: 1. a curve that lies on the surface of a cylinder or cone and cuts the element at a constant angle. 2. type genus of the family Helicidae. 
HELL: 1. any place of pain and turmoil; . 2. a cause of difficulty and suffering. 3. (Christianity) the abode of Satan and the forces of evil; where sinners suffer eternal punishment. 4. (religion) the world of the dead. 5. noisy and unrestrained mischief. 
HELLO: an expression of greeting
HELM: 1. be at or take the helm of. 2. a position of leadership. 
HELMET: 1. armor plate that protects the head. 2. a protective headgear made of hard material to resist blows. 
HELP: 1. give help or assistance; be of service. 2. improve the condition of. 3. be of use. 4. contribute to the furtherance of. 5. improve; change for the better. 
HEM: 1. fold over and sew together to provide with a hem. 2. utter `hem' or `ahem'. 
HEMAL: relating to the blood vessels or blood
HEME: a complex red organic pigment containing iron and other atoms to which oxygen binds
HEMIC: relating to or containing or affecting blood
HEMIN: a reddish-brown chloride of heme; produced from hemoglobin in laboratory tests for the presence of blood
HEMP: a plant fiber
HEMPEN: having or resembling fibers especially fibers used in making cordage such as those of jute
HEN: 1. adult female chicken. 2. adult female bird. 3. flesh of an older chicken suitable for stewing. 4. female of certain aquatic animals e.g. octopus or lobster. 
HENBIT: Eurasian plant having toothed leaves and small two-lipped white or purplish-red flowers
HENCE: 1. from this place. 2. from this time. 
HENNA: apply henna to one's hair
HEP: informed about the latest trends
HERA: queen of the Olympian gods in ancient Greek mythology; sister and wife of Zeus remembered for her jealously of the many mortal women Zeus fell in love with; identified with Roman Juno
HERALD: (formal) a person who announces important news
HERAT: a city in northwestern Afghanistan on the site of several ancient cities
HERB: 1. a plant lacking a permanent woody stem; many are flowering garden plants or potherbs; some having medicinal properties; some are pests. 2. aromatic potherb used in cookery for its savory qualities. 
HERBAL: of or relating to herbs
HERD: 1. cause to herd, drive, or crowd together. 2. move together, like a herd. 3. keep, move, or drive animals. 
HERDER: 1. German philosopher who advocated intuition over reason (1744-1803). 2. someone who drives a herd. 
HERE: 1. in or at this place; where the speaker or writer is. 2. in this circumstance or respect or on this point or detail. 3. to this place (especially toward the speaker). 4. at this time; now. 
HEREBY: (formal) by means of this
HEREIN: in this place or thing or document
HEREOF: of or concerning this
HERERO: 1. a member of a pastoral Bantu people living in Namibia, Botswana, and Angola. 2. a Banto language spoken by the Herero in Namibia, Botswana, and Angola. 
HERESY: a belief that rejects the orthodox tenets of a religion
HERETO: to this writing or document
HERM: a statue consisting of a squared stone pillar with a carved head (usually a bearded Hermes) on top; used in ancient Greece as a boundary marker or signpost
HERMES: (Greek mythology) messenger and herald of the gods; god of commerce and cunning and invention and theft; identified with Roman Mercury
HERMIT: one who lives in solitude
HERNIA: rupture in smooth muscle tissue through which a bodily structure protrudes
HERO: 1. a man distinguished by exceptional courage and nobility and strength. 2. the principal character in a play or movie or novel or poem. 3. Greek mathematician and inventor who devised a way to determine the area of a triangle and who described various mechanical devices (first century). 4. (classical mythology) a being of great strength and courage celebrated for bold exploits; often the offspring of a mortal and a god. 5. (Greek mythology) priestess of Aphrodite who killed herself when her lover Leander drowned while trying to swim the Hellespont to see her. 
HEROD: king of Judea who (according to the New Testament) tried to kill Jesus by ordering the death of all children under age two in Bethlehem (73-4 BC)
HEROIC: 1. relating to or characteristic of heroes of antiquity. 2. having or displaying qualities appropriate for heroes. 
HEROIN: a narcotic that is considered a hard drug; a highly addictive morphine derivative; intravenous injection provides the fastest and most intense rush
HERON: grey or white wading bird with long neck and long legs and (usually) long bill
HERPES: 1. viral diseases causing eruptions of the skin or mucous membrane. 2. any of the animal viruses that cause painful blisters on the skin. 
HERR: 1. a German man; used before the name as a title equivalent to Mr in English. 2. a German courtesy title or form of address for a man. 
HERTZ: 1. the unit of frequency; one hertz has a periodic interval of one second. 2. German physicist who was the first to produce electromagnetic waves artificially (1857-1894). 3. German physicist who with James Franck proved the existence of the stationary energy states postulated by Bohr (1887-1975). 
HESIOD: Greek poet whose existing works describe rural life and the genealogies of the gods and the beginning of the world (eighth century BC)
HESSE: Swiss writer (born in Germany) whose novels and poems express his interests in eastern spiritual values (1877-1962)
HEVEA: small genus of South American trees yielding latex
HEVESY: Hungarian chemist who studied radioisotopes and was one of the discoverers of the element hafnium (1885-1966)
HEW: 1. make or shape as with an axe. 2. strike with an axe; cut down, strike. 
HEWER: a person who hews
HEWN: cut or shaped with hard blows of a heavy cutting instrument like an ax or chisel
HEX: cast a spell over someone or something; put a hex on someone or something
HEXANE: a colorless flammable liquid alkane derived from petroleum and used as a solvent
HEXED: (usually used colloquially) causing or accompanied by misfortune
HEXOSE: a monosaccharide that contains six carbon atoms per molecule
HYADES: (Greek mythology) 7 daughters of Atlas and half-sisters of the Pleiades; they nurtured the infant Dionysus and Zeus placed them among the stars as a reward
HIATUS: a missing piece (as a gap in a manuscript)
HYBRID: 1. a composite of mixed origin. 2. (genetics) an organism that is the offspring of genetically dissimilar parents or stock; especially offspring produced by breeding plants or animals of different varieties or breeds or species. 3. produced by crossbreeding. 
HICCUP: breathe spasmodically, and make a sound
HICKEY: a temporary red mark on a person's skin resulting from kissing or sucking by their lover
HIDDEN: 1. designed to elude detection. 2. difficult to find. 
HIDE: 1. prevent from being seen or discovered. 2. be or go into hiding; keep out of sight, as for protection and safety. 
HIDING: the state of being hidden
HYDNUM: type genus of Hydnaceae
HYDRA: 1. (Greek mythology) monster with nine heads; when struck off each head was replaced by two new ones. 2. a long faint constellation in the southern hemisphere near the equator stretching between Virgo and Cancer. 3. trouble that cannot be overcome by a single effort because of its many aspects or its persistent and pervasive quality. 4. small tubular solitary freshwater hydrozoan polyp. 
HYDRIC: having or characterized by excessive moisture
HYDRUS: a constellation in the southern hemisphere near the south celestial pole
HYENA: doglike nocturnal mammal of Africa and southern Asia that feeds chiefly on carrion
HIGH: 1. at a great altitude. 2. in or to a high position, amount, or degree. 3. in a rich manner. 4. far up toward the source. 5. happy and excited and energetic. 6. slightly and pleasantly intoxicated from alcohol or a drug (especially marijuana). 
HIGHER: 1. advanced in complexity or elaboration. 2. of education beyond the secondary level. 
HIGHLY: 1. to a high degree or extent; favorably or with much respect. 2. at a high rate or wage. 3. in a high position or level or rank. 
HIJACK: 1. seizure of a vehicle in transit either to rob it or divert it to an alternate destination. 2. seize control of. 
HIKE: 1. increase. 2. walk a long way, as for pleasure or physical exercise. 
HIKER: a foot traveler; someone who goes on an extended walk (for pleasure)
HYLA: the type genus of the Hylidae; tree toads
HILAR: of or relating to or located near a hilum
HILL: 1. form into a hill. 2. United States railroad tycoon (1838-1916). 3. risque English comedian (1925-1992). 
HILLEL: Palestinian rabbi and interpreter of Judaic law
HILO: a town in Hawaii on the island of Hawaii
HILT: the handle of a sword or dagger
HILUM: the scar on certain seeds marking its point of attachment to the funicle
HILUS: (anatomy) a depression or fissure where vessels or nerves or ducts enter a bodily organ
HYMEN: 1. (Greek mythology) the god of marriage. 2. a fold of tissue that partly covers the entrance to the vagina of a virgin. 
HYMN: 1. sing a hymn. 2. praise by singing a hymn. 
HYMNAL: a songbook containing a collection of hymns
HIN: ancient Hebrew unit of liquid measure = 1.5 gallons
HIND: 1. any of several mostly spotted fishes that resemble groupers. 2. a female deer, especially an adult female red deer. 
HINDI: the most widely spoken of modern Indic vernaculars; spoken mostly in the north of India; along with English it is the official language of India; usually written in Devanagari script
HINDU: 1. of or relating to or supporting Hinduism. 2. a person who adheres to Hinduism. 
HINGE: 1. attach with a hinge. 2. a circumstance upon which subsequent events depend. 
HINNY: hybrid offspring of a male horse and a female donkey or ass; usually sterile
HINT: 1. drop a hint; intimate by a hint. 2. a slight indication. 
HYOID: of or relating to the hyoid bone
HIP: 1. either side of the body below the waist and above the thigh. 2. the ball-and-socket joint between the head of the femur and the acetabulum. 3. (architecture) the exterior angle formed by the junction of a sloping side and a sloping end of a roof. 4. the fruit of a rose plant. 
HYPE: publicize in an exaggerated and often misleading manner
HYPHA: any of the threadlike filaments forming the mycelium of a fungus
HYPHEN: a punctuation mark (-) used between parts of a compound word or between the syllables of a word when the word is divided at the end of a line of text
HYPNOS: (Greek mythology) the Greek god of sleep; the son of Nyx
HYPO: a compound used as a fixing agent in photographic developing
HIPPED: 1. having hips; or having hips as specified (usually in combination). 2. (of a roof) sloping on all sides. 
HIPPIE: someone who rejects the established culture; advocates extreme liberalism in politics and lifestyle
HIPPO: an ancient Numidian town in northwestern Africa adjoining present-day Annaba in northeastern Algeria
HYRAX: any of several small ungulate mammals of Africa and Asia with rodent-like incisors and feet with hooflike toes
HIRE: 1. engage or hire for work. 2. the act of hiring something or someone. 
HIRED: having services engaged for a fee
HIRUDO: type genus of the family Hirudinidae
HYSON: a Chinese green tea with twisted leaves
HISPID: (of animals or plants) having stiff coarse hairs or bristles
HISS: 1. make a sharp hissing sound, as if to show disapproval. 2. move with a whooshing sound. 3. express or utter with a hiss. 
HISSER: someone who communicates disapproval by hissing
HYSSOP: 1. a European mint with aromatic and pungent leaves used in perfumery and as a seasoning in cookery; often cultivated as a remedy for bruises; yields hyssop oil. 2. bitter leaves used sparingly in salads; dried flowers used in soups and tisanes. 
HIT: 1. cause to move by striking. 2. hit against; come into sudden contact with. 3. deal a blow to, either with the hand or with an instrument. 4. affect or afflict suddenly, usually adversely. 5. a murder carried out by an underworld syndicate. 6. a connection made via the internet to another website. 7. cause to experience suddenly. 8. drive something violently into a location. 9. consume to excess. 10. hit the intended target or goal. 11. pay unsolicited and usually unwanted sexual attention to. 
HITCH: 1. a connection between a vehicle and the load that it pulls. 2. connect to a vehicle: "hitch the trailer to the car". 3. the uneven manner of walking that results from an injured leg. 4. to hook or entangle. 
HITTER: someone who hits
HIVE: 1. store, like bees. 2. move together in a hive or as if in a hive. 3. gather into a hive. 
HOARD: save up as for future use
HOARY: ancient
HOAX: subject to a playful hoax or joke
HOB: 1. a hard steel edge tool used to cut gears. 2. a shelf beside an open fire where something can be kept warm. 3. cut with a hob. 
HOBART: a port and state capital of Tasmania
HOBBES: English materialist and political philosopher who advocated absolute sovereignty as the only kind of government that could resolve problems caused by the selfishness of human beings (1588-1679)
HOBBY: 1. a child's plaything consisting of an imitation horse mounted on rockers; the child straddles it and pretends to ride. 2. small Old World falcon formerly trained and flown at small birds. 
HOBBIT: an imaginary being similar to a person but smaller and with hairy feet; invented by J.R.R. Tolkien
HOBBLE: hamper the action or progress of
HOBNOB: rub elbows with
HOCK: disable by cutting the hock
HOD: an open box attached to a long pole handle; bricks or mortar are carried on the shoulder
HOE: dig with a hoe
HOENIR: (Norse mythology) one of the Aesir having a strong and beautiful body but a dull mind
HOG: 1. take greedily; take more than one's share. 2. a sheep up to the age of one year; one yet to be sheared. 3. domestic swine. 
HOGAN: 1. United States golfer who won many major golf tournaments (1912-1997). 2. a Navajo lodge covered with earth; traditionally built with the entrance facing east. 
HOGG: Scottish writer of rustic verse (1770-1835)
HOYA: any plant of the genus Hoya having fleshy leaves and usually nectariferous flowers
HOYLE: 1. an English astrophysicist and advocate of the steady state theory of cosmology; described processes of nucleosynthesis inside stars (1915-2001). 2. English writer on card games (1672-1769). 
HOIST: 1. raise or haul up with or as if with mechanical help. 2. move from one place to another by lifting. 3. raise. 
HOKAN: 1. a family of Amerindian languages spoken in California. 2. a member of a North American Indian people speaking one of the Hokan languages. 
HOLCUS: a genus of Old World grasses widely cultivated in America
HOLD: 1. organize or be responsible for. 2. a stronghold. 3. a cell in a jail or prison. 4. have or hold in one's hands or grip. 5. be the physical support of; carry the weight of. 6. contain or hold; have within. 7. remain in a certain state, position, or condition. 8. support or hold in a certain manner. 9. assert or affirm. 10. have as a major characteristic. 11. hold the attention of. 12. remain committed to. 13. stop dealing with. 14. keep from departing. 15. take and maintain control over, often by violent means. 16. cover as for protection against noise or smell. 17. aim, point, or direct. 18. keep from exhaling or expelling. 
HOLDER: 1. a holding device. 2. a person who holds something. 3. the person who is in possession of a check or note or bond or document of title that is endorsed to him or to whoever holds it. 
HOLE: 1. hit the ball into the hole. 2. make holes in. 3. one playing period (from tee to green) on a golf course. 4. an unoccupied space. 5. a depression hollowed out of solid matter. 6. a fault. 
HOLEY: allowing passage in and out
HOLY: belonging to or derived from or associated with a divine power
HOLISM: the theory that the parts of any whole cannot exist and cannot be understood except in their relation to the whole
HOLLER: shout out
HOLLY: 1. any tree or shrub of the genus Ilex having red berries and shiny evergreen leaves with prickly edges. 2. United States rock star (1936-1959). 
HOLLO: 1. encourage somebody by crying hollo. 2. cry hollo. 
HOLLOW: 1. not solid; having a space or gap or cavity. 2. as if echoing in a hollow space. 
HOME: 1. at or to or in the direction of one's home or family. 2. to the fullest extent; to the heart. 3. place where something began and flourished. 4. an environment offering affection and security. 5. an institution where people are cared for. 6. on or to the point aimed at. 
HOMELY: 1. lacking in physical beauty or proportion. 2. plain and unpretentious. 3. without artificial refinement or elegance. 
HOMER: 1. hit a home run. 2. ancient Greek epic poet who is believed to have written the Iliad and the Odyssey (circa 850 BC). 3. an ancient Hebrew unit of capacity equal to 10 baths or 10 ephahs. 4. United States painter best known for his seascapes (1836-1910). 
HOMILY: a sermon on a moral or religious topic
HOMING: orienting or directing homeward or to a destination
HOMINY: hulled corn with the bran and germ removed
HOMO: any living or extinct member of the family Hominidae characterized by superior intelligence, articulate speech, and erect carriage
HONE: sharpen with a hone
HONEY: of something having the color of honey
HONEST: 1. not disposed to cheat or defraud; not deceptive or fraudulent. 2. without dissimulation; frank. 3. without pretensions. 4. marked by truth. 5. gained or earned without cheating or stealing. 
HONK: 1. make a loud noise. 2. use the horn of a car. 3. cry like a goose. 
HONKER: 1. a driver who causes his car's horn to make a loud honking sound. 2. common greyish-brown wild goose of North America with a loud, trumpeting call. 
HONOR: 1. the state of being honored. 2. accept as pay. 3. a woman's virtue or chastity. 4. bestow honor or rewards upon. 
HONSHU: the central and largest of the four main islands of Japan; between the Sea of Japan and the Pacific Ocean; regarded as the Japanese mainland
HOOCH: an illicitly distilled (and usually inferior) alcoholic liquor
HOOD: 1. cover with a hood. 2. a protective covering that is part of a plant. 3. (slang) a neighborhood. 4. a tubular attachment used to keep stray light out of the lens of a camera. 5. (falconry) a leather covering for a hawk's head. 6. metal covering leading to a vent that exhausts smoke or fumes. 7. the folding roof of a carriage. 8. a headdress that protects the head and face. 9. protective covering consisting of a metal part that covers the engine. 10. (zoology) an expandable part or marking that resembles a hood on the head or neck of an animal. 
HOODOO: 1. bring bad luck; be a source of misfortune. 2. a practitioner of voodoo. 3. something believed to bring bad luck. 
HOOF: 1. the foot of an ungulate mammal. 2. dance in a professional capacity. 
HOOFER: a professional dancer
HOOK: 1. fasten with a hook. 2. a sharp curve or crook; a shape resembling a hook. 3. hit a ball and put a spin on it so that it travels to the left. 4. take by theft. 5. a golf shot that curves to the left for a right-handed golfer. 6. hit with a hook. 7. catch with a hook. 8. secure with the foot. 9. entice and trap. 10. approach with an offer of sexual favors. 
HOOKAH: an oriental tobacco pipe with a long flexible tube connected to a container where the smoke is cooled by passing through water
HOOKE: English scientist who formulated the law of elasticity and proposed a wave theory of light and formulated a theory of planetary motion and proposed the inverse square law of gravitational attraction and discovered the cellular structure of cork and introduced the term `cell' into biology and invented a balance spring for watches (1635-1703)
HOOKER: 1. United States general in the Union Army who was defeated at Chancellorsville by Robert E. Lee (1814-1879). 2. English theologian (1554-1600). 3. a golfer whose shots typically curve left (for right-handed golfers). 4. (rugby) the player in the middle of the front row of the scrum who tries to capture the ball with the foot. 
HOOKS: large strong hand (as of a fighter)
HOOKUP: 1. a device providing a connection between a power source and a user. 2. a system of components assembled together for a particular purpose. 
HOOP: 1. bind or fasten with a hoop. 2. a rigid circular band of metal or wood or other material used for holding or fastening or hanging or pulling. 
HOOPOE: any of several crested Old World birds with a slender downward-curved bill
HOOT: 1. to utter a loud clamorous shout. 2. utter the characteristic sound of owls. 
HOP: 1. jump lightly. 2. move quickly from one place to another. 3. travel by means of an aircraft, bus, etc.. 4. traverse as if by a short airplane trip. 5. jump across. 6. make a jump forward or upward. 
HOPE: 1. expect and wish. 2. be optimistic; be full of hope; have hopes. 3. someone (or something) on which expectations are centered. 4. United States comedian (born in England) who appeared in films with Bing Crosby (1903-2003). 5. one of the three Christian virtues. 6. intend with some possibility of fulfilment. 
HOPER: a person who hopes
HOPI: 1. a member of the Shoshonean people of northeastern Arizona. 2. the Shoshonean language spoken by the Hopi. 
HOPPER: 1. funnel-shaped receptacle; contents pass by gravity into a receptacle below. 2. someone who hops. 
HOPPLE: strap the foreleg and hind leg together on each side (of a horse) in order to keep the legs on the same side moving in unison
HORACE: Roman lyric poet said to have influenced English poetry (65-8 BC)
HORARY: relating to the hours
HORDE: 1. a vast multitude. 2. a nomadic community. 
HORN: 1. stab or pierce with a horn or tusk. 2. one of the bony outgrowths on the heads of certain ungulates. 3. a noise made by the driver of an automobile to give warning; . 4. a high pommel of a Western saddle (usually metal covered with leather). 5. any hard protuberance from the head of an organism that is similar to or suggestive of a horn. 6. the material (mostly keratin) that covers the horns of ungulates and forms hooves and claws and nails. 7. a device having the shape of a horn. 8. an alarm device that makes a loud warning sound. 
HORNED: having a horn or horns or hornlike parts or horns of a particular kind
HORNET: large stinging paper wasp
HORNY: having horns or hornlike projections
HORRID: exceedingly bad
HORROR: 1. intense and profound fear. 2. something that inspires dislike; something horrible. 
HORSE: 1. provide with a horse or horses. 2. a padded gymnastic apparatus on legs. 
HORST: a ridge of the earth's crust that has been forced upward between two faults and so is higher than the surrounding land
HORUS: Egyptian solar god with the head of a falcon; the son of Osiris and Isis
HOSE: 1. man's close-fitting garment of the 16th and 17th centuries covering the legs and reaching up to the waist; worn with a doublet. 2. a flexible pipe for conveying a liquid or gas. 3. water with a hose. 
HOSEA: 1. a minor Hebrew prophet (8th century BC). 2. an Old Testament book telling Hosea's prophecies. 
HOSIER: a tradesman who sells hosiery and (in England) knitwear
HOST: 1. be the host of or for. 2. an animal or plant that nourishes and supports a parasite; it does not benefit and is often harmed by the association. 3. archaic terms for army. 4. any organization that provides resources and facilities for a function or event. 5. (medicine) recipient of transplanted tissue or organ from a donor. 6. the owner or manager of an inn. 7. a technical name for the bread used in the service of Mass or Holy Communion. 
HOSTA: robust east Asian clump-forming perennial herbs having racemose flowers: plantain lilies; sometimes placed in family Hostaceae
HOSTEL: 1. a hotel providing overnight lodging for travelers. 2. inexpensive supervised lodging (especially for youths on bicycling trips). 
HOT: 1. used of physical heat; having a high or higher than desirable temperature or giving off heat or feeling or causing a sensation of heat or burning. 2. characterized by violent and forceful activity or movement; very intense. 3. extended meanings; especially of psychological heat; marked by intensity or vehemence especially of passion or enthusiasm. 4. (color) bold and intense. 5. sexually excited or exciting. 6. recently stolen or smuggled. 7. wanted by the police. 8. producing a burning sensation on the taste nerves. 9. performed or performing with unusually great skill and daring and energy. 10. very popular or successful. 11. very unpleasant or even dangerous. 12. newest or most recent. 13. having or bringing unusually good luck. 14. very good; often used in the negative. 15. newly made. 16. having or showing great eagerness or enthusiasm. 17. of a seeker; very near to the object sought. 18. having or dealing with dangerously high levels of radioactivity. 19. charged or energized with electricity. 20. marked by excited activity. 
HOTBED: 1. a situation that is ideal for rapid development (especially of something bad). 2. a bed of earth covered with glass and heated by rotting manure to promote the growth of plants. 
HOTBOX: a journal bearing (as of a railroad car) that has overheated
HOTDOG: 1. someone who performs dangerous stunts to attract attention to himself. 2. a frankfurter served hot on a bun. 
HOTEI: one of the 7 gods of happiness
HOTEL: a building where travelers can pay for lodging and meals and other services
HOUND: pursue or chase relentlessly
HOUR: 1. a period of time equal to 1/24th of a day. 2. clock time. 3. a special and memorable period. 4. distance measured by the time taken to cover it. 
HOURI: (Islam) one of the dark-eyed virgins of perfect beauty believed to live with the blessed in Paradise
HOURLY: every hour; by the hour
HOURS: 1. a period of time assigned for work. 2. an indefinite period of time. 
HOUSE: 1. contain or cover. 2. the members of a religious community living together. 3. the audience gathered together in a theatre or cinema. 4. an official assembly having legislative powers. 5. aristocratic family line. 6. play in which children take the roles of father or mother or children and pretend to interact like adults. 7. the management of a gambling house or casino. 8. a building in which something is sheltered or located. 9. provide housing for. 
HOVEL: small crude shelter used as a dwelling
HOVER: 1. be undecided about something; waver between conflicting positions or courses of action. 2. move to and fro. 3. hang in the air; fly or be suspended above. 
HOWDAH: a (usually canopied) seat for riding on the back of a camel or elephant
HOWL: 1. emit long loud cries. 2. cry loudly, as of animals. 3. a loud sustained noise resembling the cry of a hound. 
HOWLER: a glaring blunder
HUAMBO: a city in the mountains in western Angola
HUB: 1. the central part of a car wheel (or fan or propeller etc) through which the shaft or axle passes. 2. a center of activity or interest or commerce or transportation; a focal point around which events revolve. 
HUBBLE: United States astronomer who discovered that (as the universe expands) the speed with which nebulae recede increases with their distance from the observer (1889-1953)
HUBBUB: loud confused noise from many sources
HUBCAP: cap that fits over the hub of a wheel
HUBRIS: overbearing pride or presumption
HUCK: toweling consisting of coarse absorbent cotton or linen fabric
HUDDLE: 1. crowd or draw together. 2. crouch or curl up. 
HUDSON: 1. a New York river; flows southward into New York Bay; explored by Henry Hudson early in the 17th century. 2. English naturalist (born in Argentina) (1841-1922). 3. English navigator who discovered the Hudson River; in 1610 he attempted to winter in Hudson Bay but his crew mutinied and set him adrift to die (1565-1611). 
HUE: take on color or become colored
HUFF: inhale recreational drugs
HUFFY: 1. quick to take offense. 2. roused to anger. 
HUG: 1. a tight or amorous embrace. 2. fit closely or tightly. 
HUGE: unusually great in size or amount or degree or especially extent or scope
HUGGER: a person who hugs
HUITRE: edible body of any of numerous oysters
HULA: a Polynesian rain dance performed by a woman
HULK: a ship that has been wrecked and abandoned
HULL: 1. remove the hulls from. 2. persistent enlarged calyx at base of e.g. a strawberry or raspberry. 3. United States naval officer who commanded the `Constitution' during the War of 1812 and won a series of brilliant victories against the British (1773-1843). 4. United States diplomat who did the groundwork for creating the United Nations (1871-1955). 5. a large fishing port in northeastern England. 6. the frame or body of ship. 
HUM: 1. sound with a monotonous hum. 2. sing with closed lips. 3. be noisy with activity. 4. make a low continuous sound. 
HUMAN: 1. characteristic of humanity. 2. relating to a person. 3. having human form or attributes as opposed to those of animals or divine beings. 
HUMANE: 1. marked or motivated by concern with the alleviation of suffering. 2. showing evidence of moral and intellectual advancement. 
HUMATE: material that is high in humic acids
HUMBER: an estuary in central northeastern England formed by the Ouse River and the Trent River
HUMBLE: 1. low or inferior in station or quality. 2. marked by meekness or modesty; not arrogant or prideful. 3. used of unskilled work (especially domestic work). 
HUMBLY: in a humble manner
HUMBUG: 1. communication (written or spoken) intended to deceive. 2. trick or deceive. 
HUME: Scottish philosopher whose sceptical philosophy restricted human knowledge to that which can be perceived by the senses (1711-1776)
HUMIC: of or relating to or derived from humus
HUMID: containing or characterized by a great deal of water vapor
HUMIFY: convert (plant remains) into humus
HUMIN: a black humic substance that is not soluble in water
HUMMER: a singer who produces a tune without opening the lips or forming words
HUMMUS: a thick spread made from mashed chickpeas, tahini, lemon juice and garlic; used especially as a dip for pita; originated in the Middle East
HUMOR: 1. the trait of appreciating (and being able to express) the humorous. 2. the quality of being funny. 3. (Middle Ages) one of the four fluids in the body whose balance was believed to determine your emotional and physical state. 4. put into a good mood. 
HUMUS: partially decomposed organic matter; the organic component of soil
HUN: a member of a nomadic people who invaded Europe in the 4th century
HUNAN: a province in southeastern central China between the Nan Ling mountains and the Chang Jiang; noted for its timber and valuable mineral resources
HUNCH: 1. the act of bending yourself into a humped position. 2. round one's back by bending forward and drawing the shoulders forward. 
HUNGER: 1. feel the need to eat. 2. strong desire for something (not food or drink). 
HUNGRY: feeling hunger; feeling a need or desire to eat food
HUNK: 1. a well-built sexually attractive man. 2. a large piece of something without definite shape. 
HUNT: 1. pursue for food or sport (as of wild animals). 2. United States architect (1827-1895). 3. chase away, with as with force. 4. yaw back and forth about a flight path. 5. oscillate about a desired speed, position, or state to an undesirable extent. 6. search (an area) for prey. 7. the pursuit and killing or capture of wild animals regarded as a sport. 8. seek, search for. 
HUNTED: reflecting the fear or terror of one who is hunted
HUNTER: 1. someone who hunts game. 2. a person who searches for something. 3. a watch with a hinged metal lid to protect the crystal. 
HUPA: 1. a member of the Athapaskan people of the Trinity River valley in California. 2. the Athapaskan language spoken by the Hupa. 
HURDLE: 1. jump a hurdle. 2. an obstacle that you are expected to overcome. 
HURL: 1. throw forcefully. 2. utter with force; utter vehemently. 
HURRAH: shout `hurrah!'
HURRY: a condition of urgency making it necessary to hurry
HURT: 1. damaged inanimate objects or their value. 2. cause damage or affect negatively. 3. hurt the feelings of. 4. feel physical pain. 5. suffering from physical injury especially that suffered in battle. 
HURTLE: move with or as if with a rushing sound
HUSH: 1. become quiet or still; fall silent. 2. cause to be quiet or not talk. 3. wash by removing particles. 4. run water over the ground to erode (soil), revealing the underlying strata and valuable minerals. 
HUSHED: in a softened tone
HUSK: 1. outer membranous covering of some fruits or seeds. 2. remove the husks from. 
HUSS: Czechoslovakian religious reformer who anticipated the Reformation; he questioned the infallibility of the Catholic Church was excommunicated (1409) for attacking the corruption of the clergy; he was burned at the stake (1372-1415)
HUSSAR: a member of a European light cavalry unit; renowned for elegant dress
HUSTLE: 1. cause to move furtively and hurriedly. 2. sell something to or obtain something from by energetic and especially underhanded activity. 3. get by trying hard. 4. pressure or urge someone into an action. 
HUT: temporary military shelter
HUTCH: a cage (usually made of wood and wire mesh) for small animals
HUTTON: 1. English cricketer (1916-1990). 2. Scottish geologist who described the processes that have shaped the surface of the earth (1726-1797). 
HUTU: a member of a Bantu people living in Rwanda and Burundi
HUXLEY: 1. English physiologist who, with Alan Hodgkin, discovered the role of potassium and sodium ions in the transmission of the nerve impulse (born in 1917). 2. English writer; grandson of Thomas Huxley who is remembered mainly for his depiction of a scientifically controlled utopia (1894-1963). 3. English biologist and a leading exponent of Darwin's theory of evolution (1825-1895). 
IAGO: the villain in William Shakespeare's tragedy who tricked Othello into murdering his wife
IAMB: a metrical unit with unstressed-stressed syllables
IAMBIC: of or consisting of iambs
IBADAN: a large Yoruba city in southwestern Nigeria; site of a university
IBERIA: an ancient geographical region to the south of the Caucasus Mountains that corresponded approximately to the present-day Georgia
IBERIS: Old World herbs and subshrubs: candytuft
IBERT: French composer (1890-1962)
IBEX: wild goat of mountain areas of Eurasia and northern Africa having large recurved horns
IBIS: wading birds of warm regions having long slender down-curved bills
IBSEN: realistic Norwegian author who wrote plays on social and political themes (1828-1906)
ICARUS: (Greek mythology) son of Daedalus; while escaping from Crete with his father (using the wings Daedalus had made) he flew too close to the sun and the wax melted and he fell into the Aegean and drowned
ICE: 1. water frozen in the solid state. 2. cause to become ice or icy. 3. put ice on or put on ice. 4. a frozen dessert with fruit flavoring (especially one containing no milk). 
ICECAP: a mass of ice and snow that permanently covers a large area of land (e.g., the polar regions or a mountain peak)
ICEMAN: someone who cuts and delivers ice
ICHOR: (Greek mythology) the rarified fluid said to flow in the veins of the Gods
ICY: 1. covered with or containing or consisting of ice. 2. shiny and slick as with a thin coating of ice. 
ICICLE: ice resembling a pendent spear, formed by the freezing of dripping water
ICILY: in a cold and icy manner
ICING: (ice hockey) the act of shooting the puck from within your own defensive area the length of the rink beyond the opponent's goal
ICKY: very bad
ICON: 1. (computer science) a graphic symbol (usually a simple picture) that denotes a program or a command or a data file or a concept in a graphical user interface. 2. a conventional religious painting in oil on a small wooden panel; venerated in the Eastern Church. 
ICONIC: relating to or having the characteristics on an icon
IDAHO: a state in the Rocky Mountains
IDEA: 1. the content of cognition; the main thing you are thinking about. 2. a personal view. 
IDEAL: 1. conforming to an ultimate standard of perfection or excellence; embodying an ideal. 2. constituting or existing only in the form of an idea or mental image or conception. 3. of or relating to the philosophical doctrine of the reality of ideas. 
IDES: in the Roman calendar: the 15th of March or May or July or October or the 13th of any other month
IDESIA: deciduous roundheaded Asiatic tree widely grown in mild climates as an ornamental for its heart-shaped leaves and fragrant yellow-green flowers followed by hanging clusters of fleshy orange-red berries
IDYLL: an episode of such pastoral or romantic charm as to qualify as the subject of a poetic idyll
IDIOCY: extreme mental retardation
IDIOM: an expression whose meanings cannot be inferred from the meanings of the words that make it up
IDIOT: a person of subnormal intelligence
IDLE: 1. not in action or at work. 2. be idle; exist in a changeless situation. 3. not in active use. 4. silly or trivial. 5. lacking a sense of restraint or responsibility. 6. not having a job. 
IDLER: person who does no work
IDLY: in an idle manner
IDOL: 1. a material effigy that is worshipped. 2. someone who is adored blindly and excessively. 
IGBO: a member of the largest ethnic group in southeastern Nigeria
IGIGI: any of a group of heavenly spirits under the god Anu
IGLOO: an Eskimo hut; usually built of blocks (of sod or snow) in the shape of a dome
IGNITE: cause to start burning; subject to fire or great heat
IGNORE: 1. refuse to acknowledge. 2. fail to notice. 3. be ignorant of or in the dark about. 
IYAR: the eighth month of the civil year; the second month of the ecclesiastical year (in April and May)
IJSSEL: a river in the central Netherlands flowing north to the IJsselmeer
ILAMA: 1. tropical American tree grown in southern United States having a whitish pink-tinged fruit. 2. whitish tropical fruit with a pinkish tinge related to custard apples; grown in the southern United States. 
ILEUM: the part of the small intestine between the jejunum and the cecum
ILEX: a large genus of dicotyledonous trees and shrubs of the family Aquifoliaceae that have small flowers and berries (including hollies)
ILIAC: of or relating to the ilium
ILIAD: a Greek epic poem (attributed to Homer) describing the siege of Troy
ILIUM: the upper and widest of the three bones making up the hipbone
ILL: 1. (`ill' is often used as a combining form) in a poor or improper or unsatisfactory manner; not well. 2. unfavorably or with disapproval. 3. with difficulty or inconvenience; scarcely or hardly. 4. indicating hostility or enmity. 5. presaging ill fortune. 
IMAGE: 1. render visible, as by means of MRI. 2. (mathematics) the set of values of the dependent variable for which a function is defined. 3. the general impression that something (a person or organization or product) presents to the public. 
IMAGO: 1. (psychoanalysis) an idealized image of someone (usually a parent) formed in childhood. 2. an adult insect produced after metamorphosis. 
IMAM: (Islam) the man who leads prayers in a mosque; for Shiites an imam is a recognized authority on Islamic theology and law and a spiritual guide
IMARET: a hostel for pilgrims in Turkey
IMBIBE: receive into the mind and retain
IMBRUE: permeate or impregnate
IMBUE: suffuse with color
IMIDE: any of a class of organic compounds that contain the divalent radical -CONHCO-
IMMUNE: 1. relating to the condition of immunity. 2. secure against. 3. relating to or conferring immunity (to disease or infection). 4. (usually followed by `to') not affected by a given influence. 
IMP: one who is playfully mischievous
IMPACT: 1. press or wedge together; pack together. 2. a forceful consequence; a strong effect. 
IMPAIR: make worse or less effective
IMPALA: African antelope with ridged curved horns; moves with enormous leaps
IMPALE: kill by piercing with a spear or sharp pole
IMPART: 1. transmit (knowledge or skills). 2. transmit or serve as the medium for transmission. 
IMPEDE: be a hindrance or obstacle to
IMPEL: urge or force (a person) to an action; constrain or motivate
IMPEND: be imminent or about to happen
IMPLY: 1. express or state indirectly. 2. suggest as a logically necessary consequence; in logic. 3. have as a necessary feature. 
IMPORT: 1. bring in from abroad. 2. transfer (electronic data) into a database or document. 
IMPUGN: attack as false or wrong
IMPURE: 1. combined with extraneous elements. 2. (used of persons or behaviors) immoral or obscene. 
IMPUTE: 1. attribute or credit to. 2. attribute (responsibility or fault) to a cause or source. 
IN: 1. to or toward the inside of. 2. directed or bound inward. 3. currently fashionable. 
INANNA: consort of Dumuzi (Tammuz)
INBRED: produced by inbreeding
INCA: 1. a ruler of the Incas (or a member of his family). 2. a member of the Quechuan people living in the Cuzco valley in Peru. 3. the small group of Quechua living in the Cuzco Valley in Peru who established hegemony over their neighbors in order to create an empire that lasted from about 1100 until the Spanish conquest in the early 1530s. 
INCAN: of or pertaining to the Incas or their culture or empire
INCEST: sexual intercourse between persons too closely related to marry (as between a parent and a child)
INCH: a unit of length equal to one twelfth of a foot
INCHON: 1. a port city in western South Korea on the Yellow Sea. 2. a battle in the Korean War (1950); United States forces landed at Inchon. 
INCISE: make an incision into by carving or cutting
INCITE: provoke or stir up
INCOME: the financial gain (earned or unearned) accruing over a given period of time
INCUR: make oneself subject to; bring upon oneself; become liable to
INCUS: the ossicle between the malleus and the stapes
INDABA: a council at which indigenous peoples of southern Africa meet to discuss some important question
INDEED: 1. in truth (often tends to intensify). 2. (used as an interjection) an expression of surprise or skepticism or irony etc.. 
INDENE: a colorless liquid hydrocarbon extracted from petroleum or coal tar and used in making synthetic resins
INDENT: 1. set in from the margin. 2. cut or tear along an irregular line so that the parts can later be matched for authentication. 3. make a depression into. 4. notch the edge of or make jagged. 
INDEX: 1. list in an index. 2. provide with an index. 3. an alphabetical listing of names and topics along with page numbers where they are discussed. 4. the finger next to the thumb. 5. adjust through indexation. 
INDIA: a republic in the Asian subcontinent in southern Asia; second most populous country in the world; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1947
INDIAN: 1. of or relating to or characteristic of India or the East Indies or their peoples or languages or cultures. 2. of or pertaining to American Indians or their culture or languages. 
INDIC: a branch of the Indo-Iranian family of languages
INDICT: accuse formally of a crime
INDIE: 1. (of pop groups) not affiliated with a major recording company. 2. an independent film company not associated with an established studio. 
INDIGO: 1. deciduous subshrub of southeastern Asia having pinnate leaves and clusters of red or purple flowers; a source of indigo dye. 2. a blue-violet color. 3. having a color between blue and violet. 
INDIUM: a rare soft silvery metallic element; occurs in small quantities in sphalerite
INDOOR: 1. located, suited for, or taking place within a building. 2. within doors. 
INDRA: chief Hindu god of the Rig-Veda; god of rain and thunder
INDRI: large short-tailed lemur of Madagascar having thick silky fur in black and white and fawn
INDUCE: 1. cause to arise. 2. cause to do; cause to act in a specified manner. 3. cause to occur rapidly. 4. reason or establish by induction. 5. produce electric current by electrostatic or magnetic processes. 
INDUCT: 1. place ceremoniously or formally in an office or position. 2. admit as a member. 3. introduce or initiate. 
INDUS: 1. a faint constellation in the southern hemisphere near Telescopium and Tucana. 2. an Asian river that rises in Tibet and flows through northern India and then southwest through Kashmir and Pakistan to the Arabian Sea. 
INEPT: revealing lack of perceptiveness or judgment or finesse
INERT: 1. unable to move or resist motion. 2. having only a limited ability to react chemically; chemically inactive. 3. slow and apathetic. 
INFAMY: 1. a state of extreme dishonor. 2. evil fame or public reputation. 
INFECT: 1. communicate a disease to. 2. contaminate with a disease or microorganism. 3. corrupt with ideas or an ideology. 4. affect in a contagious way. 
INFEST: 1. invade in great numbers. 2. live on or in a host, as of parasites. 
INFIRM: lacking firmness of will or character or purpose; give me the daggers" - Shakespeare
INFIX: 1. an affix that is inserted inside the word. 2. attach a morpheme into a stem word. 
INFLOW: the process of flowing in
INFORM: 1. impart knowledge of some fact, state or affairs, or event to. 2. give character or essence to. 3. act as an informer. 
INFUSE: 1. undergo the process of infusion. 2. introduce into the body through a vein, for therapeutic purposes. 
INGA: any tree or shrub of the genus Inga having pinnate leaves and showy usually white flowers; cultivated as ornamentals
INGOT: metal that is cast in the shape of a block for convenient handling
INGRES: French classical painter (1780-1867)
INHALE: 1. draw deep into the lungs in by breathing. 2. draw in (air). 
INHERE: be inherent in something
INION: the craniometric point that is the most prominent point at the back of the head (at the occipital protuberance)
INJECT: 1. give an injection to. 2. to introduce (a new aspect or element). 3. force or drive (a fluid or gas) into by piercing. 4. take by injection. 5. feed intravenously. 
INJURE: cause injuries or bodily harm to
INJURY: 1. any physical damage to the body caused by violence or accident or fracture etc.. 2. an accident that results in physical damage or hurt. 3. an act that causes someone or something to receive physical damage. 4. wrongdoing that violates another's rights and is unjustly inflicted. 
INK: 1. append one's signature to. 2. mark, coat, cover, or stain with ink. 3. fill with ink. 
INKLE: a linen tape used for trimming as a decoration
INLAY: 1. decorate the surface of by inserting wood, stone, and metal. 2. a decoration made by fitting pieces of wood into prepared slots in a surface. 
INLAID: adorned by inlays
INLAND: towards or into the interior of a region
IN-LAW: a relative by marriage
INLET: an arm off of a larger body of water (often between rocky headlands)
INMATE: one of several resident of a dwelling (especially someone confined to a prison or hospital)
INMOST: 1. being deepest within the self. 2. situated or occurring farthest within. 
INNER: 1. located inward. 2. located or occurring within or closer to a center. 3. innermost or essential. 4. exclusive to a center; especially a center of influence. 5. inside or closer to the inside of the body. 
INNING: (baseball) one of nine divisions of play during which each team has a turn at bat
INPUT: 1. a component of production; something that goes into the production of output. 2. enter (data or a program) into a computer. 
INROAD: 1. an encroachment or intrusion. 2. an invasion or hostile attack. 
INSANE: afflicted with or characteristic of mental derangement
INSECT: small air-breathing arthropod
INSERT: 1. put or introduce into something. 2. introduce. 
INSET: set or place in
INSIDE: 1. within a building. 2. on the inside. 3. confined to an exclusive group. 4. away from the outer edge. 
INSIST: 1. be emphatic or resolute and refuse to budge. 2. assert to be true. 
INSOLE: the inner sole of a shoe or boot where the foot rests
INSPAN: attach a yoke or harness to
INSTAR: an insect or other arthropod between molts
INSTEP: 1. the arch of the foot. 2. the part of a shoe or stocking that covers the arch of the foot. 
INSULT: a deliberately offensive act or something producing the effect of deliberate disrespect
INSURE: take out insurance for
INTACT: 1. (of a woman) having the hymen unbroken. 2. undamaged in any way. 
INTAKE: an opening through which fluid is admitted to a tube or container
INTEND: 1. have in mind as a purpose. 2. design or destine. 
INTENT: the intended meaning of a communication
INTERN: 1. deprive of freedom. 2. work as an intern. 
INTIMA: the innermost membrane of an organ (especially the inner lining of an artery or vein or lymphatic vessel)
INTRO: a brief introductory passage to a piece of popular music
INTRON: sequence of a eukaryotic gene's DNA that is not translated into a protein
INTUIT: know or grasp by intuition or feeling
INULA: any plant of the genus Inula
INULIN: used to manufacture fructose and in assessing kidney function
INURE: cause to accept or become hardened to; habituate
INVADE: 1. march aggressively into another's territory by military force for the purposes of conquest and occupation. 2. occupy in large numbers or live on a host. 3. penetrate or assault, in a harmful or injurious way. 
INVAR: an alloy of iron and nickel having a low coefficient of thermal expansion; used in tuning forks and measuring tapes and other instruments
INVENT: come up with (an idea, plan, explanation, theory, or principle) after a mental effort
INVERT: 1. make an inversion (in a musical composition). 2. reverse the position, order, relation, or condition of. 
INVEST: 1. make an investment. 2. furnish with power or authority; of kings or emperors. 3. provide with power and authority. 
INVITE: 1. increase the likelihood of. 2. invite someone to one's house. 3. ask someone in a friendly way to do something. 4. have as a guest. 5. ask to enter. 6. request the participation or presence of. 
INVOKE: cite as an authority; resort to
INWARD: toward the center or interior
IODIDE: a salt or ester of hydriodic acid
IODINE: a nonmetallic element belonging to the halogens; used especially in medicine and photography and in dyes; occurs naturally only in combination in small quantities (as in sea water or rocks)
IODIZE: 1. treat with iodine. 2. treat with iodine so as to prevent infection. 
ION: a particle that is electrically charged (positive or negative); an atom or molecule or group that has lost or gained one or more electrons
IONIA: region of western Asia Minor colonized by ancient Greeks
IONIAN: 1. of or pertaining to the ancient Ionians who lived in Attica and related territories, to their Ionic dialect of Greek, or to their culture. 2. the ancient Greek inhabitants of Attica and related regions in Ionia. 
IONIC: 1. containing or involving or occurring in the form of ions. 2. of or pertaining to the Ionic order of classical Greek architecture. 3. of or relating to Ionia or its inhabitants or its language. 
IONIZE: 1. become converted into ions. 2. convert into ions.
IOWA: 1. a member of the Siouan people formerly living in Iowa and Minnesota and Missouri. 2. a state in midwestern United States. 3. a dialect of the Chiwere language spoken by the Iowa. 
IOWAN: a native or resident of Iowa
IPECAC: a medicinal drug used to evoke vomiting (especially in cases of drug overdose or poisoning)
IPSUS: a battle between the successors of Alexander the Great (301 BC); Lysimachus and Seleucus defeated Antigonus and Demetrius
IRAN: a theocratic Islamic republic in the Middle East in western Asia; Iran was the core of the ancient empire that was known as Persia until 1935; rich in oil
IRANI: a native or inhabitant of Iran
IRAQ: a republic in the Middle East in western Asia; the ancient civilization of Mesopotamia was in the area now known as Iraq
IRAQI: of or relating to Iraq or its people or culture
IRATE: feeling or showing extreme anger
IRENA: type genus of the Irenidae: fairy bluebirds
IRENIC: conducive to peace
IRIDIC: 1. of or containing iridium. 2. of or relating to the iris of the eye. 
IRIS: 1. plants with sword-shaped leaves and erect stalks bearing bright-colored flowers composed of three petals and three drooping sepals. 2. muscular diaphragm that controls the size of the pupil which in turn controls the amount of light that enters the eye; it forms the colored portion of the eye. 3. diaphragm consisting of thin overlapping plates that can be adjusted to change the diameter of a central opening. 
IRISH: 1. of or relating to or characteristic of Ireland or its people. 2. whiskey made in Ireland chiefly from barley. 3. the Celtic language of Ireland. 
IRITIC: of or relating to located near the iris of the eye
IRITIS: inflammation of the iris
IRON: 1. press and smooth with a heated iron. 2. a golf club that has a relatively narrow metal head. 3. implement used to brand live stock. 4. home appliance consisting of a flat metal base that is heated and used to smooth cloth. 
IRONED: (of linens or clothes) smoothed with a hot iron
IRONY: 1. incongruity between what might be expected and what actually occurs. 2. a trope that involves incongruity between what is expected and what occurs. 
IRONIC: characterized by often poignant difference or incongruity between what is expected and what actually is
IRONS: metal shackles; for hands or legs
IRTISH: an Asian river that rises in the Altai Mountains in northern China and flows generally northwest to become a tributary of the Ob River
ISAAC: (Old Testament) the second patriarch; son of Abraham and Sarah who was offered by Abraham as a sacrifice to God; father of Jacob and Esau
ISAIAH: 1. (Old Testament) the first of the major Hebrew prophets (8th century BC). 2. an Old Testament book consisting of Isaiah's prophecies. 
ISATIS: Old World genus of annual to perennial herbs: woad
ISCHIA: a volcanic island (part of Campania) in the Tyrrhenian Sea at the north end of the Bay of Naples
ISERE: a river in southeastern France; a tributary of the Rhone
ISEULT: (Middle Ages) the bride of the king of Cornwall who (according to legend) fell in love with the king's nephew (Tristan) after they mistakenly drank a love potion that left them eternally in love with each other
ISHTAR: Babylonian and Assyrian goddess of love and fertility and war; counterpart to the Phoenician Astarte
ISIS: Egyptian goddess of fertility; daughter of Geb; sister and wife of Osiris
ISLAY: an island of western Scotland at the southern end of the Inner Hebrides
ISLAM: 1. the civilization of Muslims collectively which is governed by the Muslim religion. 2. the monotheistic religious system of Muslims founded in Arabia in the 7th century and based on the teachings of Muhammad as laid down in the Koran. 
ISLAND: 1. a land mass (smaller than a continent) that is surrounded by water. 2. a zone or area resembling an island. 
ISLE: a small island
ISOBAR: (meteorology)an isogram connecting points having equal barometric pressure at a given time
ISOGON: an equiangular polygon
ISOHEL: an isogram connecting points receiving equal amounts of sunshine
ISOMER: a compound that exists in forms having different arrangements of atoms but the same molecular weight
ISOPOD: any of various small terrestrial or aquatic crustaceans with seven pairs of legs adapted for crawling
ISRAEL: 1. Jewish republic in southwestern Asia at eastern end of Mediterranean; formerly part of Palestine. 2. an ancient kingdom of the Hebrew tribes at the southeastern end of the Mediterranean Sea; founded by Saul around 1025 BC and destroyed by the Assyrians in 721 BC. 
ISSUE: 1. an important question that is in dispute and must be settled. 2. circulate or distribute or equip with. 3. come out of. 4. supplies (as food or clothing or ammunition) issued by the government. 5. the act of issuing printed materials. 6. bring out an official document (such as a warrant). 
ISSUER: an institution that issues something (securities or publications or currency etc.)
ISSUS: a battle (333 BC) in which Alexander the Great defeated the Persians under Darius III
ISURUS: mako sharks
ITALY: a republic in southern Europe on the Italian Peninsula; was the core of the Roman Republic and the Roman Empire between the 4th century BC and the 5th century AD
ITALIC: 1. characterized by slanting characters. 2. of or relating to the Italic languages. 3. a typeface with letters slanting upward to the right. 
ITCH: 1. cause to perceive an itch. 2. have or perceive an itch. 3. have a strong desire or urge to do something. 
ITCHY: causing an irritating cutaneous sensation; being affect with an itch
ITEM: 1. (used when listing or enumerating items) also. 2. a whole individual unit; especially when included in a list or collection. 
ITHACA: 1. a college town in central New York on Lake Cayuga. 2. a Greek island to the west of Greece; in Homeric legend Odysseus was its king. 
IVANOV: Russian choreographer (1834-1905)
IVY: Old World vine with lobed evergreen leaves and black berrylike fruits
IVIED: overgrown with ivy
IVORY: a hard smooth ivory colored dentine that makes up most of the tusks of elephants and walruses
IXIA: a monocotyledonous genus of the family Iridaceae
IXODES: type genus of the family Ixodidae
IZAR: a voluminous cotton outer garment (usually white) traditionally worn by Muslim women of northern Africa and the Middle East; covers the entire body
IZMIR: a port city in western Turkey
JAB: 1. poke or thrust abruptly. 2. strike or punch with quick and short blows. 
JABBER: rapid and indistinct speech
JABIRU: large white stork of warm regions of the world especially America
JABOT: a ruffle on the front of a woman's blouse or a man's shirt
JACK: 1. lift with a special device. 2. a small ball at which players aim in lawn bowling. 3. an electrical device consisting of a connector socket designed for the insertion of a plug. 4. game equipment consisting of one of several small six-pointed metal pieces that are picked up while bouncing a ball in the game of jacks. 5. small flag indicating a ship's nationality. 6. one of four face cards in a deck bearing a picture of a young prince. 7. tool for exerting pressure or lifting. 8. any of several fast-swimming predacious fishes of tropical to warm temperate seas. 9. male donkey. 
JACKAL: Old World nocturnal canine mammal closely related to the dog; smaller than a wolf; sometimes hunts in a pack but usually singly or as a member of a pair
JACKET: 1. provide with a thermally non-conducting cover. 2. put a jacket on. 3. the outer skin of a potato. 4. the tough metal shell casing for certain kinds of ammunition. 
JACKS: a game in which jackstones are thrown and picked up in various groups between bounces of a small rubber ball
JACOB: 1. French biochemist who (with Jacques Monod) studied regulatory processes in cells (born in 1920). 2. (Old Testament) son of Isaac; brother of Esau; father of the twelve patriarchs of Israel; Jacob wrestled with God and forced God to bless him, so God gave Jacob the new name of Israel (meaning `one who has been strong against God'). 
JACOBI: German mathematician (1804-1851)
JADE: of something having the color of jade; especially varying from bluish green to yellowish green
JADED: 1. exhausted. 2. dulled by surfeit. 
JAEGER: rapacious seabird that pursues weaker birds to make them drop their prey
JAFFA: a port in western Israel on the Mediterranean; incorporated into Tel Aviv in 1950
JAG: 1. cut teeth into; make a jagged cutting edge. 2. a slit in a garment that exposes material of a different color underneath; used in Renaissance clothing. 3. a flap along the edge of a garment; used in medieval clothing. 4. a bout of drinking or drug taking. 
JAGGED: having a sharply uneven surface or outline
JAGGER: English rock star (born in 1943)
JAGUAR: a large spotted feline of tropical America similar to the leopard; in some classifications considered a member of the genus Felis
JAY: 1. United States diplomat and jurist who negotiated peace treaties with Britain and served as the first chief justice of the United States Supreme Court (1745-1829). 2. crested largely blue bird. 
JAIL: a correctional institution used to detain persons who are in the lawful custody of the government (either accused persons awaiting trial or convicted persons serving a sentence)
JAIN: relating to or characteristic of Jainism
JAM: 1. preserve of crushed fruit. 2. push down forcibly. 3. crush or bruise. 4. interfere with or prevent the reception of signals. 5. get stuck and immobilized. 6. crowd or pack to capacity. 
JAMB: upright consisting of a vertical side member of a door or window frame
JAMBOS: used in some classifications for rose apples (Eugenia jambos)
JAMMED: filled to capacity
JAMMER: a transmitter used to broadcast electronic jamming
JAMPAN: a kind of sedan chair used in India
JANSEN: a Dutch Roman Catholic theologian (1585-1638)
JANUS: (Roman mythology) the Roman god of doorways and passages; is depicted with two faces on opposite sides of his head
JAP: (offensive slang) offensive term for a person of Japanese descent
JAPAN: 1. coat with a lacquer, as done in Japan. 2. a constitutional monarchy occupying the Japanese Archipelago; a world leader in electronics and automobile manufacture and ship building. 3. lacquerware decorated and varnished in the Japanese manner with a glossy durable black lacquer. 4. lacquer with a durable glossy black finish, originally from the orient. 
JAR: 1. a vessel (usually cylindrical) with a wide mouth and without handles. 2. the quantity contained in a jar. 3. shock physically. 4. affect in a disagreeable way. 5. place in a cylindrical vessel. 
JARGON: specialized technical terminology characteristic of a particular subject
JASON: (Greek mythology) the husband of Medea and leader of the Argonauts who sailed in quest of the Golden Fleece
JASPER: an opaque form of quartz; red or yellow or brown or dark green in color; used for ornamentation or as a gemstone
JASSID: a variety of leafhopper
JAT: a member of an Indo-European people widely scattered throughout the northwest of the Indian subcontinent and consisting of Muslims and Hindus and Sikhs
JATI: (Hinduism) a Hindu caste or distinctive social group of which there are thousands throughout India; a special characteristic is often the exclusive occupation of its male members (such as barber or potter)
JAVA: 1. an island in Indonesia to the south of Borneo; one of the world's most densely populated regions. 2. a platform-independent object-oriented programming language. 
JAW: 1. the part of the skull of a vertebrate that frames the mouth and holds the teeth. 2. the bones of the skull that frame the mouth and serve to open it; the bones that hold the teeth. 3. holding device consisting of one or both of the opposing parts of a tool that close to hold an object. 
JAWAN: (India) a private soldier or male constable
JAWED: of animals having jaws of a specified type
JAZZ: 1. a genre of popular music that originated in New Orleans around 1900 and developed through increasingly complex styles. 2. a style of dance music popular in the 1920s; similar to New Orleans jazz but played by large bands. 3. play something in the style of jazz. 
JAZZY: resembling jazz (especially in its rhythm)
JEAN: (usually plural) close-fitting trousers of heavy denim for manual work or casual wear
JEEP: a car suitable for traveling over rough terrain
JEER: laugh at with contempt and derision
JELL: become gelatinous
JELLY: 1. a preserve made of the jelled juice of fruit. 2. any substance having the consistency of jelly or gelatin. 
JELLO: fruit-flavored dessert (trade mark Jell-O) made from a commercially prepared gelatin powder
JENA: the battle in 1806 in which Napoleon decisively defeated the Prussians
JENNER: English physician who pioneered vaccination; Jenner inoculated people with small amounts of cowpox to prevent them from getting smallpox (1749-1823)
JENNET: female donkey
JENSEN: modernistic Danish writer (1873-1950)
JERBOA: mouselike jumping rodent
JEREZ: a city in southwestern Spain that is famous for making sherry
JERK: 1. a dull stupid fatuous person. 2. move with abrupt, seemingly uncontrolled motions. 3. (mechanics) the rate of change of acceleration. 4. throw or toss with a quick motion. 
JERKY: meat (especially beef) cut in strips and dried in the sun
JERKIN: a tight sleeveless and collarless jacket (often made of leather) worn by men in former times
JEROME: (Roman Catholic Church) one of the great Fathers of the early Christian Church whose major work was his translation of the Scriptures from Hebrew and Greek into Latin (which became the Vulgate); a saint and Doctor of the Church (347-420)
JERSEY: 1. the largest of the Channel Islands. 2. a close-fitting pullover shirt. 3. a slightly elastic machine-knit fabric. 4. a breed of diary cattle developed on the island of Jersey. 
JEST: activity characterized by good humor
JESTER: a professional clown employed to entertain a king or nobleman in the Middle Ages
JESUIT: a member of the Jesuit order
JESUS: a teacher and prophet born in Bethlehem and active in Nazareth; his life and sermons form the basis for Christianity (circa 4 BC - AD 29)
JET: 1. issue in a jet; come out in a jet; stream or spring forth. 2. fly a jet plane. 3. a hard black form of lignite that takes a brilliant polish and is used in jewelry or ornamentation. 4. atmospheric discharges (lasting 10 msec) bursting from the tops of giant storm clouds in blue cones that widen as they flash upward. 
JETH: the third month of the Hindu calendar
JETSAM: the part of a ship's equipment or cargo that is thrown overboard to lighten the load in a storm
JEVONS: English economist and logician who contributed to the development of the theory of marginal utility (1835-1882)
JEW: a person belonging to the worldwide group claiming descent from Jacob (or converted to it) and connected by cultural or religious ties
JEWEL: 1. a precious or semiprecious stone incorporated into a piece of jewelry. 2. a person who is as brilliant and precious as a piece of jewelry. 
JEWESS: a woman who is a Jew
JEWISH: of or relating to Jews or their culture or religion
JEWRY: Jews collectively
JIAO: 10 jiao equal 1 yuan in China
JIB: any triangular fore-and-aft sail (set forward of the foremast)
JIBE: shift from one side of the ship to the other
JIG: 1. dance a quick dance with leaping and kicking motions. 2. a fisherman's lure with one or more hooks that is jerked up and down in the water. 3. a device that holds a piece of machine work and guides the tools operating on it. 4. any of various old rustic dances involving kicking and leaping. 
JIGGLE: move to and fro
JIGSAW: fine-toothed power saw with a narrow blade; used to cut curved outlines
JIHAD: 1. a holy war waged by Muslims against infidels. 2. a holy struggle or striving by a Muslim for a moral or spiritual or political goal. 
JILT: cast aside capriciously or unfeelingly
JILTED: rebuffed (by a lover) without warning
JIMMY: a short crowbar
JINGLE: make a sound typical of metallic objects
JINJA: a city in Uganda on the north shore of Lake Victoria
JINKS: noisy and mischievous merrymaking
JINNAH: Indian statesman who was the founder of Pakistan as a Muslim state (1876-1948)
JINX: foredoom to failure
JYNX: wrynecks
JIQUI: Cuban timber tree with hard wood very resistant to moisture
JIRGA: a Pashto term for a decision making assembly of male elders
JITTER: 1. small rapid variations in a waveform resulting from fluctuations in the voltage supply or mechanical vibrations or other sources. 2. a small irregular movement. 
JIVE: dance to jive music; dance the jive
JOB: 1. a specific piece of work required to be done as a duty or for a specific fee. 2. work occasionally. 3. an object worked on; a result produced by working. 4. the responsibility to do something. 5. the performance of a piece of work. 6. a damaging piece of work. 7. a Jewish hero in the Old Testament who maintained his faith in God in spite of afflictions that tested him. 8. any long-suffering person who withstands affliction without despairing. 9. (computer science) a program application that may consist of several steps but is a single logical unit. 10. a book in the Old Testament containing Job's pleas to God about his afflictions and God's reply. 11. profit privately from public office and official business. 
JOBBER: someone who buys large quantities of goods and resells to merchants rather than to the ultimate customers
JOCKEY: 1. someone employed to ride horses in horse races. 2. compete (for an advantage or a position). 3. ride a racehorse as a professional jockey. 
JOEL: 1. a Hebrew minor prophet. 2. an Old Testament book telling Joel's prophecies. 
JOFFRE: French field marshal who commanded the Allied armies in France during World War II (1852-1931)
JOG: 1. a sharp change in direction. 2. a slow pace of running. 3. run for exercise. 4. give a slight push to. 5. stimulate to remember. 
JOGGER: someone who runs a steady slow pace (usually for exercise)
JOGGLE: fasten or join with a joggle
JOHN: 1. youngest son of Henry II; King of England from 1199 to 1216; succeeded to the throne on the death of his brother Richard I; lost his French possessions; in 1215 John was compelled by the barons to sign the Magna Carta (1167-1216). 2. (New Testament) disciple of Jesus; traditionally said to be the author of the 4th Gospel and three epistles and the book of Revelation. 3. the last of the four Gospels in the New Testament. 
JOY: 1. the emotion of great happiness. 2. something or someone that provides a source of happiness. 
JOYCE: influential Irish writer noted for his many innovations (such as stream of consciousness writing) (1882-1941)
JOYFUL: full of or producing joy
JOIN: 1. become part of; become a member of a group or organization. 2. cause to become joined or linked. 3. come into the company of. 4. make contact or come together. 
JOINED: of or relating to two people who are married to each other
JOINER: 1. a person who likes to join groups. 2. a woodworker whose work involves making things by joining pieces of wood. 
JOINT: 1. united or combined. 2. affecting or involving two or more. 3. junction by which parts or objects are joined together. 4. marijuana leaves rolled into a cigarette for smoking. 5. involving both houses of a legislature. 6. separate (meat) at the joint. 
JOYOUS: full of or characterized by joy
JOIST: beam used to support floors or roofs
JOKE: 1. tell a joke; speak humorously. 2. a triviality not to be taken seriously. 3. act in a funny or teasing way. 
JOKER: 1. a person who enjoys telling or playing jokes. 2. a person who does something thoughtless or annoying. 3. an inconspicuous clause in a document or bill that affects its meaning in a way that is not immediately apparent. 4. a playing card that is usually printed with a picture of a jester. 
JOLLY: a happy party
JOLT: 1. move or cause to move with a sudden jerky motion. 2. disturb (someone's) composure. 
JOLTED: 1. bumped or shaken jerkily. 2. disturbed psychologically as if by a physical jolt or shock. 
JONAH: 1. (Old Testament) Jonah did not wish to become a prophet so God caused a great storm to throw him overboard from a ship; he was saved by being swallowed by a whale that vomited him out onto dry land. 2. a person believed to bring bad luck to those around him. 3. a book in the Old Testament that tells the story of Jonah and the whale. 
JONSON: English dramatist and poet who was the first real poet laureate of England (1572-1637)
JORDAN: 1. a river in Palestine that empties into the Dead Sea; John the Baptist baptized Jesus in the Jordan. 2. an Arab kingdom in southwestern Asia on the Red Sea. 
JORUM: a large drinking bowl
JOSHUA: 1. (Old Testament) Moses' successor who led the Israelites into the Promised Land; best remembered for his destruction of Jericho. 2. a book in the Old Testament describing how Joshua led the Israelites into Canaan (the Promised Land) after the death of Moses. 
JOSS: a Chinese god worshipped in the form of an idol
JOSTLE: 1. make one's way by jostling, pushing, or shoving. 2. come into rough contact with while moving. 
JOTTER: a small notebook for rough notes
JOTUN: (Norse mythology) one of a race of giants often in conflict with the Aesir
JOULE: 1. a unit of electrical energy equal to the work done when a current of one ampere passes through a resistance of one ohm for one second. 2. English physicist who established the mechanical theory of heat and discovered the first law of thermodynamics (1818-1889). 
JOUST: joust against somebody in a tournament by fighting on horseback
JOVIAN: 1. of or pertaining to or characteristic of or resembling the planet Jupiter. 2. of or pertaining to or befitting the Roman deity Jupiter. 
JOWETT: English classical scholar noted for his translations of Plato and Aristotle (1817-1893)
JOWL: a fullness and looseness of the flesh of the lower cheek and jaw (characteristic of aging)
JUDAH: 1. (Old Testament) the fourth son of Jacob who was forebear of one of the tribes of Israel; one of his descendants was to be the Messiah. 2. an ancient kingdom of southern Palestine with Jerusalem as its center. 
JUDAIC: of or relating to or characteristic of the Jews or their culture or religion
JUDAS: 1. (New Testament) the Apostle who betrayed Jesus to his enemies for 30 pieces of silver. 2. someone who betrays under the guise of friendship. 3. a one-way peephole in a door. 
JUDDER: shake or vibrate rapidly and intensively
JUDE: (New Testament) supposed brother of St. James; one of the Apostles who is invoked in prayer when a situation seems hopeless
JUDEA: the southern part of ancient Palestine succeeding the kingdom of Judah; a Roman province at the time of Christ
JUDGE: 1. determine the result of (a competition). 2. put on trial or hear a case and sit as the judge at the trial of. 
JUDGES: a book of the Old Testament that tells the history of Israel under the leaders known as judges
JUDITH: 1. Jewish heroine in one of the books of the Apocrypha; she saved her people by decapitating the Assyrian general Holofernes. 2. an Apocryphal book telling how Judith saved her people. 
JUDO: a sport adapted from jujitsu (using principles of not resisting) and similar to wrestling; developed in Japan
JUG: 1. a large bottle with a narrow mouth. 2. stew in an earthenware jug. 
JUGALE: the craniometric point at the union of the frontal and temporal processes of the zygomatic bone
JUGGLE: 1. influence by slyness. 2. manipulate by or as if by moving around components. 3. deal with simultaneously. 4. throw, catch, and keep in the air several things simultaneously. 5. hold with difficulty and balance insecurely. 
JUICE: 1. the liquid part that can be extracted from plant or animal tissue by squeezing or cooking. 2. energetic vitality. 3. electric current. 4. any of several liquids of the body. 
JUICY: 1. full of juice. 2. having strong sexual appeal. 
JUJU: 1. the power associated with a juju. 2. a charm superstitiously believed to embody magical powers. 
JUJUBE: 1. spiny tree having dark red edible fruits. 2. dark red plumlike fruit of Old World buckthorn trees. 3. chewy fruit-flavored jellied candy (sometimes medicated to soothe a sore throat). 
JUKE: 1. a small roadside establishment in the southeastern United States where you can eat and drink and dance to music provided by a jukebox. 2. (football) a deceptive move made by a football player. 
JULEP: bourbon and sugar and mint over crushed ice
JULY: the month following June and preceding August
JULIAN: of or relating to or characteristic of Julius Caesar
JUMBLE: 1. assemble without order or sense. 2. be all mixed up or jumbled together. 
JUMP: 1. move forward by leaps and bounds. 2. make a sudden physical attack on. 3. descent with a parachute. 4. enter eagerly into. 5. increase suddenly and significantly. 6. jump down from an elevated point. 7. cause to jump or leap. 8. bypass. 
JUMPER: 1. a person who jumps. 2. an athlete who competes at jumping. 3. a coverall worn by children. 4. a small connector used to make temporary electrical connections. 5. a loose jacket or blouse worn by workmen. 6. a sleeveless dress resembling an apron; worn over other clothing. 7. (basketball) a player releases the basketball at the high point of a jump. 
JUNCO: small North American finch seen chiefly in winter
JUNCUS: type genus of the Juncaceae; perennial tufted glabrous marsh plants of temperate regions: rushes
JUNE: the month following May and preceding July
JUNEAU: the state capital of Alaska
JUNG: Swiss psychologist (1875-1961)
JUNGLE: 1. a location marked by an intense competition and struggle for survival. 2. an impenetrable equatorial forest. 
JUNGLY: overgrown with tropical vegetation
JUNIOR: 1. younger; lower in rank; shorter in length of tenure or service. 2. used of the third or next to final year in United States high school or college. 3. including or intended for youthful persons. 4. a son who has the same first name as his father. 
JUNK: any of various Chinese boats with a high poop and lugsails
JUNKER: member of the Prussian aristocracy noted especially for militarism
JUNKET: 1. dessert made of sweetened milk coagulated with rennet. 2. a trip taken by an official at public expense. 
JUNO: (Roman mythology) queen of the Olympian gods who protected marriage; wife and sister of Jupiter; counterpart of Greek Hera
JUPATI: a tall Brazilian feather palm with a terminal crown of very large leathery pinnatisect leaves rising from long strong stems used for structural purposes
JURAL: of or relating to law or to legal rights and obligations
JURY: 1. a body of citizens sworn to give a true verdict according to the evidence presented in a court of law. 2. a committee appointed to judge a competition. 
JURIST: a legal scholar versed in civil law or the law of nations
JUROR: someone who serves (or waits to be called to serve) on a jury
JUST: 1. used especially of what is legally or ethically right or proper or fitting. 2. only a moment ago. 3. absolutely. 4. exactly at this moment or the moment described; . 
JUSTLY: in accordance with moral or social standards
JUTE: 1. a plant fiber used in making rope or sacks. 2. a member of a Germanic people who conquered England and merged with the Angles and Saxons to become Anglo-Saxons. 
KAABA: (Islam) a black stone building in Mecca that is shaped like a cube and that is the most sacred Muslim pilgrim shrine; believed to have been given by Gabriel to Abraham; Muslims turn in its direction when praying
KABOB: cubes of meat marinated and cooked on a skewer usually with vegetables
KABUL: the capital and largest city of Afghanistan; located in eastern Afghanistan
KACHIN: Tibeto-Burman languages spoken in northernmost Burma and adjacent China and India
KADAI: a family of Sino-Tibetan languages spoken in southeastern Asia
KAFFIR: an offensive and insulting term for any Black African
KAFIR: a member of the Kafir people in northeastern Afghanistan
KAFIRI: a Dardic language spoken by the Kafir in northeastern Afghanistan
KAFKA: Czech novelist who wrote in German about a nightmarish world of isolated and troubled individuals (1883-1924)
KAHLUA: coffee-flavored liqueur made in Mexico
KAYAK: travel in a small canoe
KAISER: the title of the Holy Roman Emperors or the emperors of Austria or of Germany until 1918
KAKI: blackish stilt of New Zealand sometimes considered a color phase of the white-headed stilt
KALE: 1. a hardy cabbage with coarse curly leaves that do not form a head. 2. coarse curly-leafed cabbage. 
KALI: wife of Siva and malevolent form of Devi
KALKI: the 10th and last incarnation of Vishnu
KALMIA: any plant of the genus Kalmia
KALUGA: a city of central Russia to the south of Moscow
KAMA: Hindu god of love and erotic desire; opposite of Mara
KAMBA: a Bantu language spoken by the Kamba in Kenya
KAMET: a mountain in the Himalayas in northern India (25,450 feet high)
KAMI: one the Shinto deities (including mythological beings, spirits of distinguished men, forces of nature)
KANARA: a historical region of southwestern India on the west coast
KANDY: a city of central Sri Lanka that was the last capital of the ancient kings of Ceylon; a resort and religious center
KANSA: 1. a member of the Siouan people of the Kansas river valley in Kansas. 2. the Dhegiha dialect spoken by the Kansa. 
KANSAN: a native or resident of Kansas
KANSAS: 1. a state in midwestern United States. 2. a river in northeastern Kansas; flows eastward to become a tributary of the Missouri River. 
KANT: influential German idealist philosopher (1724-1804)
KANZU: (Swahili) a long garment (usually white) with long sleeves; worn by men in East Africa
KAON: an unstable meson produced as the result of a high-energy particle collision
KAPOK: 1. a plant fiber from the kapok tree; used for stuffing and insulation. 2. massive tropical tree with deep ridges on its massive trunk and bearing large pods of seeds covered with silky floss; source of the silky kapok fiber. 
KAPPA: the 10th letter of the Greek alphabet
KAPUKA: small New Zealand broadleaf evergreen tree often cultivated in warm regions as an ornamental
KARAT: the unit of measurement for the proportion of gold in an alloy; 18-karat gold is 75% gold; 24-karat gold is pure gold
KARATE: a traditional Japanese system of unarmed combat; sharp blows and kicks are given to pressure-sensitive points on the body of the opponent
KAREN: the Tibeto-Burman language spoken in the Thailand and Burmese borderlands
KARMA: (Hinduism and Buddhism) the effects of a person's actions that determine his destiny in his next incarnation
KARPOV: Russian chess master who was world champion from 1975 until 1985 when he was defeated by Gary Kasparov (born in 1951)
KASAI: a river of southwestern Africa that rises in central Angola and flows east and then north (forming part of the border between Angola and Congo) and continuing northwest through Congo to empty into the Congo River on the border between Congo and Republic of the Congo
KASBAH: an older or native quarter of many cities in northern Africa; the quarter in which the citadel is located
KASHA: boiled or baked buckwheat
KAT: the leaves of the shrub Catha edulis which are chewed like tobacco or used to make tea; has the effect of a euphoric stimulant
KAUAI: an island of Hawaii to the northwest of Oahu
KAUNAS: a city in central Lithuania
KAUNDA: statesman who led Northern Rhodesia to full independence as Zambia in 1964 and served as Zambia's first president (1924-1999)
KAURI: 1. resin of the kauri trees of New Zealand; found usually as a fossil; also collected for making varnishes and linoleum. 2. tall timber tree of New Zealand having white straight-grained wood. 3. white close-grained wood of a tree of the genus Agathis especially Agathis australis. 
KAVA: an alcoholic drink made from the aromatic roots of the kava shrub
KAWAKA: New Zealand timber tree resembling the cypress
KAZAK: 1. a Muslim who is a member of a Turkic people of western Asia (especially in Kazakstan). 2. the Turkic language spoken by the Kazak. 
KAZAN: 1. United States stage and screen director (born in Turkey) and believer in method acting (1909-2003). 2. an industrial city in the European part of Russia. 
KAZOO: a toy wind instrument that has a membrane that makes a sound when you hum into the mouthpiece
KEA: large brownish-green New Zealand parrot
KEAN: English actor noted for his portrayals of Shakespeare's great tragic characters (1789-1833)
KEATS: Englishman and romantic poet (1795-1821)
KEBLE: English clergyman who (with John Henry Newman and Edward Pusey) founded the Oxford movement (1792-1866)
KEEL: 1. a projection or ridge that suggests a keel. 2. the median ridge on the breastbone of birds that fly. 3. one of the main longitudinal beams (or plates) of the hull of a vessel; can extend vertically into the water to provide lateral stability. 
KEEN: 1. a funeral lament sung with loud wailing. 2. having a sharp cutting edge or point. 
KEENLY: in a keen and discriminating manner
KEEP: 1. the main tower within the walls of a medieval castle or fortress. 2. keep in a certain state, position, or activity; e.g., "keep clean". 3. retain possession of. 4. look after; be the keeper of; have charge of. 5. maintain by writing regular records. 6. supply with room and board. 7. fail to spoil or rot. 8. maintain in safety from injury, harm, or danger. 9. raise. 10. store or keep customarily. 11. have as a supply. 12. maintain for use and service. 13. hold and prevent from leaving. 
KEEPER: someone in charge of other people
KEG: 1. the quantity contained in a keg. 2. small cask or barrel. 
KEY: 1. metal device shaped in such a way that when it is inserted into the appropriate lock the lock's mechanism can be rotated. 2. provide with a key. 3. vandalize a car by scratching the sides with a key. 4. regulate the musical pitch of. 5. harmonize with or adjust to. 6. United States lawyer and poet who wrote a poem after witnessing the British attack on Baltimore during the War of 1812; the poem was later set to music and entitled `The Star-Spangled Banner' (1779-1843). 7. a coral reef off the southern coast of Florida. 8. (basketball) a space (including the foul line) in front of the basket at each end of a basketball court; usually painted a different color from the rest of the court. 9. a list of answers to a test. 10. a list of words or phrases that explain symbols or abbreviations. 11. a generic term for any device whose possession entitles the holder to a means of access. 12. a lever (as in a keyboard) that actuates a mechanism when depressed. 
KEYED: 1. fitted with or secured by a key. 2. set to a key or tone. 
KEYNES: English economist who advocated the use of government monetary and fiscal policy to maintain full employment without inflation (1883-1946)
KEKCHI: 1. a member of a Mayan people of north central Guatemala. 2. a Mayan language spoken by the Kekchi. 
KELOID: raised pinkish scar tissue at the site of an injury; results from excessive tissue repair
KELP: large brown seaweeds having fluted leathery fronds
KELPY: (Scottish folklore) water spirit in the form of a horse that likes to drown its riders
KELPIE: an Australian sheepdog with pointed ears
KELVIN: 1. the basic unit of thermodynamic temperature adopted under the Systeme International d'Unites. 2. British physicist who invented the Kelvin scale of temperature and pioneered undersea telegraphy (1824-1907). 
KEMPT: (of hair) neat and tidy
KENAF: 1. fiber from an East Indian plant Hibiscus cannabinus. 2. valuable fiber plant of East Indies now widespread in cultivation. 
KENYA: a republic in eastern Africa; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1963; major archeological discoveries have been made in the Great Rift Valley in Kenya
KENYAN: of or relating to or characteristic of Kenya or its people
KENNEL: put up in a kennel
KENT: 1. a county in southeastern England on the English Channel; formerly an Anglo-Saxon kingdom, it was the first to be colonized by the Romans. 2. United States painter noted for his woodcuts (1882-1971). 
KEPI: a cap with a flat circular top and a visor
KEPLER: German astronomer who first stated laws of planetary motion (1571-1630)
KERN: 1. furnish with a kern. 2. remove a portion of space between (adjacent letters). 
KERNEL: 1. the inner and usually edible part of a seed or grain or nut or fruit stone. 2. a single whole grain of a cereal. 3. the choicest or most essential or most vital part of some idea or experience. 
KETCH: a sailing vessel with two masts; the mizzen is forward of the rudderpost
KETONE: any of a class of organic compounds having a carbonyl group linked to a carbon atom in each of two hydrocarbon radicals
KETOSE: any monosaccharide sugar that contains a ketone group or its hemiacetal
KETTLE: 1. a metal pot for stewing or boiling; usually has a lid. 2. the quantity a kettle will hold. 3. a large hemispherical brass or copper percussion instrument with a drumhead that can be tuned by adjusting the tension on it. 
KHADI: a coarse homespun cotton cloth made in India
KHAYA: African mahogany trees
KHAKI: of a yellowish brown color
KHAKIS: a military uniform made of khaki fabric
KHALSA: the group of initiated Sikhs to which devout orthodox Sikhs are ritually admitted at puberty; founded by the tenth and last Guru in 1699
KHAMA: Botswanan statesman who was the first president of Botswana (1921-1980)
KHAMTI: a branch of the Tai languages
KHAN: a title given to rulers or other important people in Asian countries
KHMER: 1. the Mon-Khmer language spoken in Cambodia. 2. a native or inhabitant of Cambodia. 
KHOUM: 5 khoums equal 1 ouguiya in Mauritania
KHOWAR: a Dardic language spoken in northwestern Pakistan
KIANG: wild ass of Tibet and Mongolia
KYAT: the basic unit of money in Myanmar
KIBBLE: 1. coarsely ground grain in the form of pellets (as for pet food). 2. an iron bucket used for hoisting in wells or mining. 
KIBE: ulcerated chilblain on the heel
KIBITZ: make unwanted and intrusive comments
KICK: 1. drive or propel with the foot. 2. the sudden stimulation provided by strong drink (or certain drugs). 3. stop consuming. 4. thrash about or strike out with the feet. 5. strike with the foot. 6. kick a leg up. 7. make a goal. 
KICKER: a player who kicks the football
KID: 1. be silly or tease one another. 2. young goat. 
KYD: English dramatist (1558-1594)
KIDD: Scottish sea captain who was hired to protect British shipping in the Indian Ocean and then was accused of piracy and hanged (1645-1701)
KIDDY: a young child
KIDNAP: take away to an undisclosed location against their will and usually in order to extract a ransom
KIDNEY: either of two bean-shaped excretory organs that filter wastes (especially urea) from the blood and excrete them and water in urine
KIGALI: the national capital and largest city of Rwanda; located in central Rwanda
KIKE: (ethnic slur) offensive term for a Jew
KYLIE: an Australian boomerang; one side flat and the other convex
KYLIX: a shallow drinking cup with two handles; used in ancient Greece
KILL: 1. thwart the passage of. 2. cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly. 3. be fatal. 4. be the source of great pain for. 5. overwhelm with hilarity, pleasure, or admiration. 6. hit with so much force as to make a return impossible, in racket games. 7. hit with great force. 8. deprive of life. 9. cause the death of, without intention. 10. mark for deletion, rub off, or erase. 11. tire out completely. 12. cause to cease operating. 13. destroy a vitally essential quality of or in. 
KILLER: 1. someone who causes the death of a person or animal. 2. a difficulty that is hard to deal with. 
KILN: a furnace for firing or burning or drying such things as porcelain or bricks
KILROY: a nonexistent person popularized by American servicemen during World War II
KILT: a knee-length pleated tartan skirt worn by men as part of the traditional dress in the Highlands of northern Scotland
KILTER: in working order
KIMONO: a loose robe; imitated from robes originally worn by Japanese
KIN: 1. a person having kinship with another or others. 2. group of people related by blood or marriage. 
KINA: the basic unit of money in Papua New Guinea
KINASE: an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of a proenzyme to an active enzyme
KIND: 1. having or showing a tender and considerate and helpful nature; used especially of persons and their behavior. 2. agreeable, conducive to comfort. 3. tolerant and forgiving under provocation. 
KINDLE: 1. catch fire. 2. cause to start burning. 
KINDLY: 1. pleasant and agreeable. 2. in a kind manner or out of kindness. 
KING: 1. a male sovereign; ruler of a kingdom. 2. a competitor who holds a preeminent position. 3. preeminence in a particular category or group or field. 4. United States woman tennis player (born in 1943). 5. United States guitar player and singer of the blues (born in 1925). 6. United States charismatic civil rights leader and Baptist minister who campaigned against the segregation of Blacks (1929-1968). 7. a checker that has been moved to the opponent's first row where it is promoted to a piece that is free to move either forward or backward. 8. one of the four playing cards in a deck bearing the picture of a king. 9. (chess) the weakest but the most important piece. 
KINGLY: having the rank of or resembling or befitting a king
KININ: any of a class of plant hormones that promote cell division and delay the senescence of leaves
KINK: 1. a sharp bend in a line produced when a line having a loop is pulled tight. 2. a person with unusual sexual tastes. 3. an eccentric idea. 4. a difficulty or flaw in a plan or operation. 
KINKY: (used of sexual behavior) showing or appealing to bizarre or deviant tastes
KINO: 1. a gum obtained from various tropical plants; used as an astringent and in tanning. 2. East Indian tree yielding a resin or extract often used medicinally and in e.g. tanning. 
KYOTO: a city in central Japan on southern Honshu; a famous cultural center that was once the capital of Japan
KIOWA: 1. a member of a Tanoan people living in the southwestern United States. 2. the Tanoan language spoken by the Kiowa. 
KIP: 1. sleep. 2. the basic unit of money in Laos. 3. a gymnastic exercise performed starting from a position with the legs over the upper body and moving to an erect position by arching the back and swinging the legs out and down while forcing the chest upright. 
KIPPER: salted and smoked herring
KIRK: a Scottish church
KIRKUK: a city in northeastern Iraq; the center of a rich oilfield with pipelines to the Mediterranean
KIRPAN: a ceremonial four-inch curved dagger that Sikh men and women are obliged to wear at all times
KIRSCH: from fermented juice of black morello cherries
KIRTLE: 1. a garment resembling a tunic that was worn by men in the Middle Ages. 2. a long dress worn by women. 
KISHAR: Babylonian consort of Anshar; in Sumerian the name signifies `the totality of the lower world'
KISHKE: (Judaism) roasted fowl intestines with a seasoned filling of matzo meal and suet
KISLEV: the third month of the civil year; the ninth month of the ecclesiastical year in the Jewish calendar (in November and December)
KISMET: (Islam) the will of Allah
KISS: 1. the act of caressing with the lips (or an instance thereof). 2. touch lightly or gently. 3. any of several bite-sized candies. 4. a light glancing touch. 
KISSER: someone who kisses
KISUMU: a port city in western Kenya on the northeastern shore of Lake Victoria; fishing and trading center
KIT: 1. a case for containing a set of articles. 2. gear consisting of a set of articles or tools for a specified purpose. 3. young of any of various fur-bearing animals. 
KITBAG: a knapsack (usually for a soldier)
KITE: 1. increase the amount (of a check) fraudulently. 2. get credit or money by using a bad check. 3. soar or fly like a kite. 4. fly a kite. 
KITH: your friends and acquaintances
KITSCH: excessively garish or sentimental art; usually considered in bad taste
KITTEN: have kittens
KITTY: informal terms referring to a domestic cat
KYUSHU: the southernmost of the four main islands of Japan; contains coal fields
KIVU: a lake in the mountains of central Africa between Congo and Rwanda
KIWI: 1. fuzzy brown egg-shaped fruit with slightly tart green flesh. 2. nocturnal flightless bird of New Zealand having a long neck and stout legs; only surviving representative of the order Apterygiformes. 
KLAXON: a kind of loud horn formerly used on motor vehicles
KLEE: Swiss painter influenced by Kandinsky (1879-1940)
KLEIST: German dramatist whose works concern people torn between reason and emotion (1777-1811)
KLIMT: Austrian painter influenced by art nouveau (1862-1918)
KLUDGE: a badly assembled collection of parts hastily assembled to serve some particular purpose (often used to refer to computing systems or software that has been badly put together)
KLUTZ: (Yiddish) a clumsy dolt
KNAWEL: widely distributed low-growing Eurasian herb having narrow leaves and inconspicuous green flowers
KNEAD: make uniform
KNEE: 1. hinge joint in the human leg connecting the tibia and fibula with the femur and protected in front by the patella. 2. the part of a trouser leg that provides the cloth covering for the knee. 
KNEEL: rest one's weight on one's knees
KNELL: ring as in announcing death
KNIFE: 1. use a knife on. 2. a weapon with a handle and blade with a sharp point. 
KNIGHT: 1. raise (someone) to knighthood. 2. a chessman shaped to resemble the head of a horse; can move two squares horizontally and one vertically (or vice versa). 
KNISH: (Yiddish) a baked or fried turnover filled with potato or meat or cheese; often eaten as a snack
KNIT: 1. make (textiles) by knitting. 2. tie or link together. 3. needlework created by interlacing yarn in a series of connected loops using straight eyeless needles or by machine. 
KNOB: 1. a circular rounded projection or protuberance. 2. a round handle. 3. an ornament in the shape of a ball on the hilt of a sword or dagger. 
KNOBBY: having knobs
KNOCK: 1. deliver a sharp blow or push :"He knocked the glass clear across the room". 2. rap with the knuckles. 3. a vigorous blow. 4. a bad experience. 5. the act of hitting vigorously. 6. find fault with; express criticism of; point out real or perceived flaws. 
KNOLL: a small natural hill
KNOT: 1. make into knots; make knots out of. 2. tie or fasten into a knot. 3. a hard cross-grained round piece of wood in a board where a branch emerged. 4. something twisted and tight and swollen. 5. a sandpiper that breeds in the Arctic and winters in the southern hemisphere. 
KNOTTY: tangled in knots or snarls
KNOUT: a whip with a lash of leather thongs twisted with wire; used for flogging prisoners
KNOW: 1. be cognizant or aware of a fact or a specific piece of information; possess knowledge or information about. 2. know how to do or perform something. 3. be aware of the truth of something; have a belief or faith in something; regard as true beyond any doubt. 4. be familiar or acquainted with a person or an object. 5. have firsthand knowledge of states, situations, emotions, or sensations. 6. have fixed in the mind. 7. know the nature or character of. 8. be able to distinguish, recognize as being different. 9. perceive as familiar. 
KNOWER: a person who knows or apprehends
KNOWN: apprehended with certainty
KNOX: Scottish theologian who founded Presbyterianism in Scotland and wrote a history of the Reformation in Scotland (1514-1572)
KOALA: sluggish tailless Australian arboreal marsupial with grey furry ears and coat; feeds on eucalyptus leaves and bark
KOAN: a paradoxical anecdote or a riddle that has no solution; used in Zen Buddhism to show the inadequacy of logical reasoning
KOB: an orange-brown antelope of southeast Africa
KOBE: a port city in Japan on Osaka Bay in southern Honshu; was damaged by an earthquake in 1995
KOBO: 100 kobos equal 1 naira in Nigeria
KOBUS: African antelopes: waterbucks
KOCH: German bacteriologist who isolated the anthrax bacillus and the tubercle bacillus and the cholera bacillus (1843-1910)
KODIAK: an island off southern Alaska in the Gulf of Alaska; site of the first European settlement in the area which was founded by the Russians in 1784
KOGIA: pygmy sperm whales
KOHL: a cosmetic preparation used by women in Egypt and Arabia to darken the edges of their eyelids
KOINE: a Greek dialect that flourished under the Roman Empire
KOKKA: of or pertaining to the branch of Shinto recognized as the state religion of Japan
KOLA: tree bearing large brown nuts containing e.g. caffeine; source of cola extract
KOLAMI: the Dravidian language spoken by the Kolam in central India
KOMI: 1. a member of a Finnish people living in the northwestern Urals in Russia. 2. the Finnic language spoken by the Komi. 
KONGO: the Bantu language spoken by the Kongo living in the tropical forests of Zaire and Congo and Angola
KONINI: erect deciduous shrub or tree to 10 feet with maroon flowers; New Zealand
KOOK: someone regarded as eccentric or crazy and standing out from a group
KOPEK: 100 kopecks equal 1 ruble in Russia
KOPJE: a small hill rising up from the African veld
KORAN: the sacred writings of Islam revealed by God to the prophet Muhammad during his life at Mecca and Medina
KORBUT: Soviet gymnast (born in 1955)
KOREA: an Asian peninsula (off Manchuria) separating the Yellow Sea and the Sea of Japan; the Korean name is Dae-Han-Min-Gook or Han-Gook
KOREAN: 1. of or relating to or characteristic of Korea or its people or language. 2. the Altaic language spoken by Koreans. 
KORUNA: 1. the basic unit of money in Slovakia. 2. the basic unit of money in Czech Republic. 
KOS: (in India) a unit of length having different values in different localities
KOSHER: 1. conforming to dietary laws. 2. proper or legitimate. 
KOSOVO: a Serbian province in southern Serbia and Montenegro populated predominantly by Albanians
KOTA: 1. a member of the Dravidian people living in the Nilgiri Hills in southern India. 2. a Dravidian language spoken by the Kota. 
KOTO: Japanese stringed instrument that resembles a zither; has a rectangular wooden sounding board and usually 13 silk strings that are plucked with the fingers
KOTOKO: a Chadic language spoken south of Lake Chad
KOWHAI: shrub or small tree of New Zealand and Chile having pendulous racemes of tubular golden-yellow flowers; yields a hard strong wood
KOWTOW: a former Chinese custom of touching the ground with the forehead as a sign of respect or submission
KRAAL: 1. a village of huts for native Africans in southern Africa; usually surrounded by a stockade. 2. a pen for livestock in southern Africa. 
KRAFT: strong wrapping paper made from pulp processed with a sulfur solution
KRAIT: brightly colored venomous but nonaggressive snake of southeastern Asia and Malay peninsula
KRAUT: offensive term for a person of German descent
KREBS: English biochemist (born in Germany) who discovered the Krebs cycle (1900-1981)
KRIGIA: any small branched yellow-flowered North American herb of the genus Krigia
KRILL: shrimp-like planktonic crustaceans; major source of food for e.g. baleen whales
KRIS: a Malayan dagger with a wavy blade
KROON: the basic unit of money in Estonia
KRUBI: malodorous tropical plant having a spathe that resembles the corolla of a morning glory and attains a diameter of several feet
KRUGER: Boer statesman (1825-1904)
KRUPP: 1. German arms manufacturer and son of Friedrich Krupp; his firm provided ordnance for German armies from the 1840s through World War II (1812-1887). 2. German industrialist who manufactured steel in Essen (1787-1826). 
KUDU: either of two spiral-horned antelopes of the African bush
KUDZU: fast-growing vine from eastern Asia having tuberous starchy roots and hairy trifoliate leaves and racemes of purple flowers followed by long hairy pods containing many seeds; grown for fodder and forage and root starch; widespread in the southern United States
KUHN: Austrian chemist who did research on carotenoids and vitamins (1900-1967)
KUI: 1. a member of the Dravidian people living in southeastern India. 2. the Dravidian language spoken by the Kui in southeastern India. 
KUKI: Kamarupan languages spoken in western Burma and Bangladesh and easternmost India
KUMASI: a city in southern Ghana
KUMMEL: liqueur flavored with caraway seed or cumin
KUNLUN: a mountain range in western China that extends eastward from the Indian border for 1000 miles
KURA: a river in western Asia; rises in northeast Turkey and flows to the Caspian Sea
KURD: a member of a largely pastoral Islamic people who live in Kurdistan; the largest ethnic group without their own state
KURSK: a city of southwestern Russia
KURTA: a loose collarless shirt worn by many people on the Indian subcontinent (usually with a salwar or churidars or pyjama)
KURU: a progressive disease of the central nervous system marked by increasing lack of coordination and advancing to paralysis and death within a year of the appearance of symptoms; thought to have been transmitted by cannibalistic consumption of diseased brain tissue since the disease virtually disappeared when cannibalism was abandoned
KURUS: 100 kurus equal 1 lira in Turkey
KUSAN: 1. a member of the North American Indian people of Oregon. 2. a Penutian language spoken by the Kusan. 
KUVASZ: long-established Hungarian breed of tall light-footed but sturdy white dog; used also as a hunting dog
KUWAIT: 1. a seaport on the Persian Gulf and capital of Kuwait. 2. an Arab kingdom in Asia on the northwestern coast of the Persian Gulf; a major source of petroleum. 
KVASS: fermented beverage resembling beer but made from rye or barley
KVETCH: 1. (Yiddish) a constant complainer. 2. (Yiddish) a nagging complaint. 
KWA: a group of African language in the Niger-Congo group spoken from the Ivory Coast east to Nigeria
KWANZA: the basic unit of money in Angola
KWELA: a kind of danceable music popular among black South Africans; includes a whistle among its instruments
LAAGER: a camp defended by a circular formation of wagons
LAB: a workplace for the conduct of scientific research
LABAN: Hungarian choreographer who developed Labanotation (1879-1958)
LABEL: 1. assign a label to; designate with a label. 2. trade name of a company that produces musical recordings. 3. a radioactive isotope that is used in a compound in order to trace the mechanism of a chemical reaction. 4. distinguish (as a compound or molecule) by introducing a labeled atom. 5. distinguish (an element or atom) by using a radioactive isotope or an isotope of unusual mass for tracing through chemical reactions. 
LABIAL: 1. of or relating to the lips of the mouth. 2. relating to or near the female labium. 
LABILE: 1. (chemistry, physics, biology) readily undergoing change or breakdown. 2. liable to change. 
LABIUM: a liplike structure that bounds a bodily orifice (especially any of the four labiate folds of a woman's vulva)
LABLAB: one species: hyacinth bean
LABOR: 1. a social class comprising those who do manual labor or work for wages. 2. work hard. 3. undergo the efforts of childbirth. 
LAC: resinlike substance secreted by certain lac insects; used in e.g. varnishes and sealing wax
LACE: 1. a cord that is drawn through eyelets or around hooks in order to draw together two edges (as of a shoe or garment). 2. a delicate decorative fabric woven in an open web of symmetrical patterns. 3. do lacework. 4. draw through eyes or holes. 
LACED: 1. closed with a lace. 2. edged or streaked with color. 
LACER: a workman who laces shoes or footballs or books (during binding)
LACY: 1. made of or resembling lace. 2. having open interstices or resembling a web. 
LACING: a small amount of liquor added to a food or beverage
LACK: the state of needing something that is absent or unavailable
LACKEY: a male servant (especially a footman)
LACTIC: of or relating to or obtained from milk (especially sour milk or whey)
LACUNA: a blank gap or missing part
LADDER: 1. come unraveled or undone as if by snagging. 2. ascending stages by which somebody or something can progress. 
LADEN: 1. filled with a great quantity. 2. burdened psychologically or mentally. 
LADY: 1. a polite name for any woman. 2. a woman of the peerage in Britain. 
LADIN: a Rhaeto-Romance dialect of Romansh spoken in southeastern Switzerland
LADLE: 1. put (a liquid) into a container by means of a ladle. 2. remove with or as if with a ladle. 
LAELIA: any of various spectacular plants of the genus Laelia having showy flowers in many colors
LAG: 1. hang (back) or fall (behind) in movement, progress, development, etc.. 2. throw or pitch at a mark, as with coins. 3. cover with lagging to prevent heat loss. 
LAGAN: goods (or wreckage) on the sea bed that is attached to a buoy so that it can be recovered
LAGER: a general term for beer made with bottom fermenting yeast (usually by decoction mashing); originally it was brewed in March or April and matured until September
LAGOON: a body of water cut off from a larger body by a reef of sand or coral
LAGOS: chief port and economic center of Nigeria; located in southwestern Nigeria on the Gulf of Guinea; former capital of Nigeria
LAHAR: an avalanche of volcanic water and mud down the slopes of a volcano
LAHORE: city in northeast Pakistan
LAY: 1. not of or from a profession. 2. prepare or position for action or operation. 3. lay eggs. 4. impose as a duty, burden, or punishment. 
LAIC: characteristic of those who are not members of the clergy
LAID: set down according to a plan:"a carefully laid table with places set for four people"
LAYER: 1. make or form a layer. 2. a relatively thin sheetlike expanse or region lying over or under another. 3. a hen that lays eggs. 4. thin structure composed of a single thickness of cells. 
LAYIA: genus of western United States annuals with showy yellow or white flowers
LAYING: the production of eggs (especially in birds)
LAYMAN: someone who is not a clergyman or a professional person
LAYOFF: the act of laying off an employee or a work force
LAYOUT: 1. a plan or design of something that is laid out. 2. the act of laying out (as by making plans for something). 
LAIR: the habitation of wild animals
LAIRD: a landowner
LAITY: in Christianity, members of a religious community that do not have the priestly responsibilities of ordained clergy
LAY-UP: a basketball shot made with one hand from a position under or beside the basket (and usually banked off the backboard)
LAIUS: (Greek mythology) king of Thebes who was unwittingly killed by his son Oedipus
LAKE: 1. a body of (usually fresh) water surrounded by land. 2. a purplish red pigment prepared from lac or cochineal. 3. any of numerous bright translucent organic pigments. 
LALLY: support column consisting of a steel cylinder filled with concrete
LAMA: 1. a Tibetan or Mongolian priest of Lamaism. 2. llamas. 
LAMB: 1. give birth to a lamb. 2. English essayist (1775-1834). 3. a person easily deceived or cheated (especially in financial matters). 4. a sweet innocent mild-mannered person (especially a child). 5. the flesh of a young domestic sheep eaten as food. 
LAMBDA: 1. the 11th letter of the Greek alphabet. 2. the craniometric point at the junction of the sagittal and lamboid sutures of the skull. 
LAME: a fabric interwoven with threads of metal
LAMELY: in a weak and unconvincing manner
LAMENT: express grief verbally
LAMINA: a thin plate or layer (especially of bone or mineral)
LAMIUM: genus of Old World herbs: dead nettles; henbits
LAMMAS: commemorates Saint Peter's miraculous deliverance from prison; a quarter day in Scotland; a harvest festival in England
LAMNA: a genus of Lamnidae
LAMP: 1. an artificial source of visible illumination. 2. a piece of furniture holding one or more electric light bulbs. 
LANAI: 1. an island of central Hawaii; a pineapple-growing area. 2. a veranda or roofed patio often furnished and used as a living room. 
LANATE: covered with dense cottony hairs or hairlike filaments
LANCE: 1. move quickly, as if by cutting one's way. 2. pierce with a lance, as in a knights' fight. 3. open by piercing with a lancet. 
LANCER: (formerly) a cavalryman armed with a lance
LANCET: a surgical knife with a pointed double-edged blade; used for punctures and small incisions
LAND: 1. reach or come to rest. 2. cause to come to the ground. 3. bring ashore. 4. United States inventor who incorporated Polaroid film into lenses and invented the one step photographic process (1909-1991). 5. deliver (a blow). 6. arrive on shore. 
LANDAU: 1. Soviet physicist who worked on low temperature physics (1908-1968). 2. a four-wheel covered carriage with a roof divided into two parts (front and back) that can be let down separately. 
LANDED: owning or consisting of land or real estate
LANDER: 1. a town in central Wyoming. 2. a space vehicle that is designed to land on the moon or another planet. 
LANE: 1. a narrow way or road. 2. a well-defined track or path; for e.g. swimmers or lines of traffic. 
LANGUR: slender long-tailed monkey of Asia
LANIUS: type genus of the Laniidae: typical shrikes
LANK: 1. long and thin and often limp. 2. long and lean. 
LANSEH: East Indian tart yellow berrylike fruit
LANUGO: the fine downy hair covering a human fetus; normally shed during the ninth month of gestation
LAO: 1. of or relating to a member of the Buddhist people inhabiting the Mekong river in Laos and Thailand. 2. the Tai language of a Buddhist people living in the area of the Mekong River in Thailand and Laos. 
LAOS: a mountainous landlocked communist state in southeastern Asia; achieved independence from France in 1949
LAP: 1. lie partly over or alongside of something or of one another. 2. an area of control or responsibility. 3. move with or cause to move with a whistling or hissing sound. 4. take up with the tongue. 5. movement once around a course. 
LAPDOG: a dog small and tame enough to be held in the lap
LAPEL: lap at the front of a coat; continuation of the coat collar
LAPFUL: the quantity that can be held in the lap
LAPIN: 1. the fur of a rabbit. 2. castrated male rabbit. 
LAPP: 1. a member of an indigenous nomadic people living in northern Scandinavia and herding reindeer. 2. the language of nomadic Lapps in northern Scandinavia and the Kola Peninsula. 
LAPPET: 1. a small lap on a garment or headdress. 2. medium-sized hairy moths; larvae are lappet caterpillars. 
LAPPIC: any of the languages spoken by the Lapps and generally assumed to be Uralic languages
LAPSE: 1. end, at least for a long time. 2. drop to a lower level, as in one's morals or standards. 3. let slip. 
LAPSED: no longer active or practicing
LAPTOP: a portable computer small enough to use in your lap
LAPUTA: a land imagined by Jonathan Swift where impractical projects were pursued and practical projects neglected
LARCH: 1. wood of a larch tree. 2. any of numerous conifers of the genus Larix all having deciduous needlelike leaves. 
LARD: prepare or cook with lard
LARDER: a supply of food especially for a household
LAREDO: a city in southern Texas on the Rio Grande
LARGE: 1. at a distance, wide of something (as of a mark). 2. with the wind abaft the beam. 3. having broad power and range and scope. 
LARGO: slowly and broadly
LARI: 1. the basic unit of money in Georgia. 2. gulls; terns; jaegers; skimmers. 
LARID: long-winged web-footed aquatic bird of the gull family
LARYNX: a cartilaginous structure at the top of the trachea; contains elastic vocal cords that are the source of the vocal tone in speech
LARIX: larches
LARK: any of numerous predominantly Old World birds noted for their singing
LARUS: type genus of the Laridae
LARVA: the immature free-living form of most invertebrates and amphibians and fish which at hatching from the egg is fundamentally unlike its parent and must metamorphose
LARVAL: 1. immature of its kind; especially being or characteristic of immature insects in the newly hatched wormlike feeding stage. 2. relating to or typical of a larva. 
LASCAR: 1. an East Indian sailor. 2. a volcano in the Andes in Chile. 
LASER: an acronym for light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation; an optical device that produces an intense monochromatic beam of coherent light
LASH: 1. lash or flick about sharply. 2. bind with a rope, chain, or cord. 
LASHER: a driver who urges the animals on with lashes of a whip
LASS: a girl or young woman who is unmarried
LASSO: 1. catch with a lasso. 2. a long noosed rope used to catch animals. 
LAST: 1. the item at the end. 2. a person's dying act; the final thing a person can do. 3. occurring at the time of death. 4. a unit of capacity for grain equal to 80 bushels. 5. holding device shaped like a human foot that is used to fashion or repair shoes. 6. most_recently. 7. most unlikely or unsuitable. 8. highest in extent or degree. 9. lowest in rank or importance. 
LASTEX: yarn that has an elastic core wound around with cotton or silk or nylon or rayon threads
LATCH: 1. fasten with a latch. 2. catch for fastening a door or gate; a bar that can be lowered or slid into a groove. 
LATE: 1. later than usual or than expected. 2. at an advanced age or stage. 3. having died recently. 4. of a later stage in the development of a language or literature; used especially of dead languages. 5. at or toward an end or late period or stage of development. 
LATEEN: rigged with a triangular (lateen) sail
LATENT: 1. potentially existing but not presently evident or realized. 2. (pathology) not presently active. 
LATER: 1. coming at a subsequent time or stage. 2. comparative of the adverb `late'. 
LATEST: 1. the most recent news or development. 2. in the current fashion or style. 
LATEX: a milky exudate from certain plants that coagulates on exposure to air
LATH: a narrow thin strip of wood used as backing for plaster or to make latticework
LATHE: machine tool for shaping metal or wood; the workpiece turns about a horizontal axis against a fixed tool
LATHER: 1. exude sweat or lather. 2. the foam resulting from excessive sweating (as on a horse). 3. form a lather. 
LATHI: club consisting of a heavy stick (often bamboo) bound with iron; used by police in India
LATIN: 1. of or relating to the ancient Latins or the Latin language. 2. relating to people or countries speaking Romance languages. 3. a person who is a member of those peoples whose languages derived from Latin. 4. of or relating to the ancient region of Latium. 
LATINO: an artificial language based on words common to the Romance languages
LATISH: somewhat late
LATIUM: an ancient region of west central Italy (southeast of Rome) on the Tyrrhenian Sea
LATS: the basic unit of money in Latvia
LATTEN: brass (or a yellow alloy resembling brass) that was hammered into thin sheets; formerly used for church utensils
LATTER: referring to the second of two things or persons mentioned (or the last one or ones of several)
LATVIA: a republic in northeastern Europe on the eastern coast of the Baltic Sea
LAUD: praise, glorify, or honor
LAUDER: Scottish ballad singer and music hall comedian (1870-1950)
LAUGH: 1. produce laughter. 2. a facial expression characteristic of a person laughing. 
LAUNCH: 1. a motorboat with an open deck or a half deck. 2. propel with force. 3. launch for the first time; launch on a maiden voyage. 4. get going; give impetus to. 5. smoothen the surface of. 
LAUREL: 1. any of various aromatic trees of the laurel family. 2. United States slapstick comedian (born in England) who played the scatterbrained and often tearful member of the Laurel and Hardy duo who made many films (1890-1965). 3. (antiquity) a wreath of laurel foliage worn on the head as an emblem of victory. 
LAURUS: small evergreen trees or shrubs with aromatic leaves
LAVA: rock that in its molten form (as magma) issues from volcanos; lava is what magma is called when it reaches the surface
LAVAGE: washing out a hollow organ (especially the stomach) by flushing with water
LAVE: wash or flow against
LAVISH: 1. very generous. 2. characterized by extravagance and profusion. 
LAW: 1. the collection of rules imposed by authority. 2. legal document setting forth rules governing a particular kind of activity. 3. a rule or body of rules of conduct inherent in human nature and essential to or binding upon human society. 4. a generalization that describes recurring facts or events in nature. 5. the learned profession that is mastered by graduate study in a law school and that is responsible for the judicial system. 
LAWFUL: 1. conformable to or allowed by law. 2. according to custom or rule or natural law. 3. authorized, sanctioned by, or in accordance with law. 
LAWYER: a professional person authorized to practice law; conducts lawsuits or gives legal advice
LAWMAN: an officer of the law
LAWN: a field of cultivated and mowed grass
LAWTON: a town in southwest Oklahoma
LAX: 1. lacking in rigor or strictness. 2. pronounced with muscles of the tongue and jaw relatively relaxed (e.g., the vowel sound in `bet'). 3. lacking in strength or firmness or resilience. 4. emptying easily or excessively. 
LAXLY: in a permissively lenient manner
LAZY: moving slowly and gently
LAZILY: in a slow and lazy manner
L-DOPA: the levorotatory form of dopa (trade names Bendopa and Brocadopa and Larodopa); as a drug it is used to treat Parkinson's disease
LEA: a unit of length of thread or yarn
LEACH: 1. cause (a liquid) to leach or percolate. 2. permeate or penetrate gradually. 3. remove substances from by a percolating liquid. 
LEAD: 1. take somebody somewhere. 2. a soft heavy toxic malleable metallic element; bluish white when freshly cut but tarnishes readily to dull grey. 3. tend to or result in. 4. travel in front of; go in advance of others. 5. cause to undertake a certain action. 6. the introductory section of a story. 7. (sports) the score by which a team or individual is winning. 8. (baseball) the position taken by a base runner preparing to advance to the next base. 9. a news story of major importance. 10. thin strip of metal used to separate lines of type in printing. 11. mixture of graphite with clay in different degrees of hardness; the marking substance in a pencil. 12. the playing of a card to start a trick in bridge. 13. be ahead of others; be the first. 
LEADED: 1. (of panes of glass) fixed in place by means of thin strips of lead. 2. treated or mixed with lead. 3. having thin strips of lead between the lines of type. 
LEADEN: 1. made heavy or weighted down with weariness. 2. made of lead. 3. (of movement) slow and laborious. 
LEADER: a person who rules or guides or inspires others
LEAF: 1. the main organ of photosynthesis and transpiration in higher plants. 2. turn over pages. 3. produce leaves, of plants. 
LEAFED: having leaves or leaves as specified; often used in combination
LEAFY: having or covered with leaves
LEAGUE: 1. unite to form a league. 2. an association of states or organizations or individuals for common action. 3. an obsolete unit of distance of variable length (usually 3 miles). 
LEAK: 1. tell anonymously. 2. be leaked. 3. enter or escape as through a hole or crack or fissure. 4. unauthorized (especially deliberate) disclosure of confidential information. 5. have an opening that allows light or substances to enter or go out. 
LEAKEY: 1. English paleontologist (son of Louis Leakey and Mary Leakey) who continued the work of his parents; he was appointed director of a wildlife preserve in Kenya but resigned under political pressure (born in 1944). 2. English paleontologist (the wife of Louis Leakey) who discovered the Zinjanthropus skull that was 1,750,000 years old (1913-1996). 3. English paleontologist whose account of fossil discoveries in Tanzania changed theories of human evolution (1903-1972). 
LEAKER: a surreptitious informant
LEAKY: 1. permitting the unwanted passage of fluids or gases. 2. used informally; unable to retain urine. 
LEAL: faithful and true
LEAN: 1. to incline or bend from a vertical position. 2. lacking in mineral content or combustible material. 3. not profitable or prosperous. 4. containing little excess. 
LEANER: (horseshoes) the throw of a horseshoe so as to lean against (but not encircle) the stake
LEAP: 1. a light, self-propelled movement upwards or forwards. 2. pass abruptly from one state or topic to another. 3. the distance leaped (or to be leaped). 
LEAR: 1. British artist and writer of nonsense verse (1812-1888). 2. the hero of William Shakespeare's tragedy who was betrayed and mistreated by two of his scheming daughters. 
LEARN: 1. gain knowledge or skills. 2. get to know or become aware of, usually accidentally. 3. be a student of a certain subject. 
LEASE: 1. property that is leased or rented out or let. 2. a contract granting use or occupation of property during a specified time for a specified payment. 3. grant use or occupation of under a term of contract. 4. engage for service under a term of contract. 
LEASH: restraint consisting of a rope (or light chain) used to restrain an animal
LEAST: used to form the superlative
LEAVE: 1. go away from a place. 2. go and leave behind, either intentionally or by neglect or forgetfulness. 3. act or be so as to become in a specified state. 4. leave unchanged or undisturbed or refrain from taking. 5. make a possibility or provide opportunity for; permit to be attainable or cause to remain. 6. have as a result or residue. 7. remove oneself from an association with or participation in. 8. have left or have as a remainder. 9. be survived by after one's death. 
LEAVEN: 1. a substance used to produce fermentation in dough or a liquid. 2. an influence that works subtly to lighten or modify something. 
LECHWE: tawny-colored African antelope inhabiting wet grassy plains; a threatened species
LECTIN: any of several plant glycoproteins that act like specific antibodies but are not antibodies in that they are not evoked by an antigenic stimulus
LECTOR: 1. someone who reads the lessons in a church service; someone ordained in a minor order of the Roman Catholic Church. 2. a public lecturer at certain universities. 
LEDA: (Greek mythology) a queen of Sparta who was raped by Zeus who had taken the form of a swan; Helen of Troy was conceived in the rape of Leda
LEDGE: a projecting ridge on a mountain or submerged under water
LEDGER: a record in which commercial accounts are recorded
LEDUM: evergreen shrubs of north temperate regions
LEECH: 1. carnivorous or bloodsucking aquatic or terrestrial worms typically having a sucker at each end. 2. a follower who hangs around a host (without benefit to the host) in hope of gain or advantage. 
LEEDS: a city on the River Aire in West Yorkshire in northern England; a center of the clothing industry
LEEK: 1. plant having a large slender white bulb and flat overlapping dark green leaves; used in cooking; believed derived from the wild Allium ampeloprasum. 2. related to onions; white cylindrical bulb and flat dark-green leaves. 
LEER: 1. a suggestive or sneering look or grin. 2. look suggestively or obliquely; look or gaze with a sly, immodest, or malign expression. 
LEERY: openly distrustful and unwilling to confide
LEES: the sediment from fermentation of an alcoholic beverage
LEEWAY: (of a ship or plane) sideways drift
LEFT: 1. toward or on the left; also used figuratively. 2. those who support varying degrees of social or political or economic change designed to promote the public welfare. 3. intended for the left hand. 4. a turn toward the side of the body that is on the north when the person is facing east. 5. of or belonging to the political or intellectual left. 
LEG: 1. a human limb; commonly used to refer to a whole limb but technically only the part of the limb between the knee and ankle. 2. a structure in animals that is similar to a human leg and used for locomotion. 3. one of the supports for a piece of furniture. 4. the limb of an animal used for food. 5. a cloth covering consisting of the part of a pair of trousers that covers a person's leg. 6. (nautical) the distance traveled by a sailing vessel on a single tack. 
LEGAL: 1. established by or founded upon law or official or accepted rules. 2. of or relating to jurisprudence. 3. having legal efficacy or force. 4. relating to or characteristic of the profession of law. 5. allowed by official rules. 
LEGATE: a member of a legation
LEGATO: connecting the notes; in music
LEGEND: a story about mythical or supernatural beings or events
LEGER: French painter who was an early cubist (1881-1955)
LEGGED: having legs of a specified kind or number
LEGGY: 1. (of plants) having tall spindly stems. 2. having long legs. 
LEGION: 1. association of ex-servicemen. 2. a large military unit. 
LEGO: (trademark) a child's plastic construction set for making mechanical models
LEGS: staying power
LEGUME: 1. an erect or climbing bean or pea plant of the family Leguminosae. 2. the fruit or seed of any of various bean or pea plants consisting of a case that splits along both sides when ripe and having the seeds attach to one side of the case. 3. the seedpod of a leguminous plant (such as peas or beans or lentils). 
LEHAR: Hungarian composer of light operas (1870-1948)
LEIDEN: a city in the western Netherlands; residence of the Pilgrim Fathers for 11 years before they sailed for America in 1620
LEIGH: English film actress (1913-1967)
LEK: the basic unit of money in Albania
LEKVAR: a sweet filling made of prunes or apricots
LEMMA: 1. a subsidiary proposition that is assumed to be true in order to prove another proposition. 2. the lower and stouter of the two glumes immediately enclosing the floret in most Gramineae. 3. the heading that indicates the subject of an annotation or a literary composition or a dictionary entry. 
LEMMUS: lemmings
LEMNA: minute aquatic herbs floating on or below the water surface of still water consisting of a leaflike frond or plant body and single root
LEMNOS: a Greek island in the northern Aegean Sea; famous for a reddish-brown clay that has medicinal properties
LEMON: 1. yellow oval fruit with juicy acidic flesh. 2. a small evergreen tree that originated in Asia but is widely cultivated for its fruit. 3. a distinctive tart flavor characteristic of lemons. 4. an artifact (especially an automobile) that is defective or unsatisfactory. 
LEMONY: tasting sour like a lemon
LEMUR: large-eyed arboreal prosimian having foxy faces and long furry tails
LENA: a Russian river in Siberia; flows northward into the Laptev Sea
LENARD: German physicist who studied cathode rays (1862-1947)
LEND: 1. bestow a quality on. 2. give temporarily; let have for a limited time. 3. have certain characteristics of qualities for something; be open or vulnerable to. 
LENDER: someone who lends money or gives credit in business matters
LENGTH: 1. the linear extent in space from one end to the other; the longest dimension of something that is fixed in place. 2. the property of being the extent of something from beginning to end. 3. a section of something that is long and narrow. 
LENIN: Russian founder of the Bolsheviks and leader of the Russian Revolution and first head of the USSR (1870-1924)
LENNON: English rock star and guitarist and songwriter who with Paul McCartney wrote most of the music for the Beatles (1940-1980)
LENS: 1. a transparent optical device used to converge or diverge transmitted light and to form images. 2. genus of small erect or climbing herbs with pinnate leaves and small inconspicuous white flowers and small flattened pods: lentils. 3. (metaphor) a channel through which something can be seen or understood. 4. biconvex transparent body situated behind the iris in the eye; its role (along with the cornea) is to focuses light on the retina. 5. electronic equipment that uses a magnetic or electric field in order to focus a beam of electrons. 
LENT: a period of 40 weekdays from Ash Wednesday to Holy Saturday
LENTEN: of or relating to or suitable for Lent
LENTIC: of or relating to or living in still waters (as lakes or ponds)
LENTIL: 1. round flat seed of the lentil plant used for food. 2. the fruit or seed of a lentil plant. 3. widely cultivated Eurasian annual herb grown for its edible flattened seeds that are cooked like peas and also ground into meal and for its leafy stalks that are used as fodder. 
LENTO: in music
LEO: 1. (astrology) a person who is born while the sun is in Leo. 2. a zodiacal constellation in northern hemisphere between Cancer and Virgo. 3. the fifth sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about July 23 to August 22. 
LEON: 1. a historical area and former kingdom in northwestern Spain. 2. a city in northwestern Spain at the foot of the Cantabrian Mountains. 3. a city in central Mexico. 
LEONE: the basic unit of money in Sierra Leone; equal to 100 cents
LEPAS: type genus of the family Lepadidae
LEPER: 1. a person afflicted with leprosy. 2. a pariah who is avoided by others. 
LEPTON: 1. 100 lepta equal 1 drachma in Greece. 2. an elementary particle that participates in weak interactions; has a baryon number of 0. 
LEPUS: 1. a constellation in the southern hemisphere near Orion and Columba. 2. type genus of the Leporidae: hares. 
LEROT: dormouse of southern Europe and northern Africa
LESBOS: an island of eastern Greece in the eastern Aegean Sea; in antiquity it was famous for lyric poetry
LESION: any localized abnormal structural change in a bodily part
LESS: 1. used to form the comparative of some adjectives and adverbs. 2. comparative of little. 3. (nonstandard in some uses but often idiomatic with measure phrases) fewer. 
LESSER: 1. of less size or importance. 2. smaller in size or amount or value. 
LESSON: 1. a unit of instruction. 2. a task assigned for individual study. 
LESSOR: someone who grants a lease
LET: 1. actively cause something to happen. 2. make it possible through a specific action or lack of action for something to happen. 3. leave unchanged. 
LETHE: (Greek mythology) a river in Hades; the souls of the dead had to drink from it, which made them forget all they had done and suffered when they were alive
LETO: wife or mistress of Zeus and mother of Apollo and Artemis in ancient mythology; called Latona in Roman mythology
LETTER: 1. win an athletic letter. 2. set down or print with letters. 3. mark letters on or mark with letters. 4. a strictly literal interpretation (as distinct from the intention). 5. an award earned by participation in a school sport. 
LETUP: a pause during which things are calm or activities are diminished
LEU: 1. the basic unit of money in Moldova. 2. the basic unit of money in Romania. 
LEV: the basic unit of money in Bulgaria
LEVANT: 1. run off without paying a debt. 2. the former name for the geographical area of the eastern Mediterranean that is now occupied by Lebanon, Syria, and Israel. 
LEVEE: 1. a formal reception of visitors or guests (as at a royal court). 2. a pier that provides a landing place on a river. 3. an embankment that is built in order to prevent a river from overflowing. 
LEVEL: 1. oriented at right angles to the plumb. 2. talk frankly with; lay it on the line. 3. an abstract place usually conceived as having depth. 4. aim at. 5. not showing abrupt variations. 6. become level or even. 7. being on a precise horizontal plane. 
LEVER: 1. a rigid bar pivoted about a fulcrum. 2. a simple machine that gives a mechanical advantage when given a fulcrum. 3. a flat metal tumbler in a lever lock. 
LEVY: 1. impose and collect. 2. the act of drafting into military service. 
LEVI'S: a popular brand of jeans
LEVITE: a member of the Hebrew tribe of Levi (especially the branch that provided male assistants to the temple priests)
LEVITY: 1. feeling an inappropriate lack of seriousness. 2. a manner lacking seriousness. 
LEWD: suggestive of or tending to moral looseness
LEWDLY: in a lewd and obscene manner
LEXEME: a minimal unit (as a word or stem) in the lexicon of a language; `go' and `went' and `gone' and `going' are all members of the English lexeme `go'
LEXIS: all of the words in a language; all word forms having meaning or grammatical function
LHASA: 1. the sacred city of Lamaism; known as the Forbidden City for its former inaccessibility and hostility to strangers. 2. a breed of terrier having a long heavy coat raised in Tibet as watchdogs. 
LIABLE: 1. subject to legal action. 2. (often followed by `to') likely to be affected with. 3. held legally responsible. 
LIANA: a woody climbing usually tropical plant
LIAO: the dynasty that ruled much of Manchuria and northeastern China from 947 to 1125
LIAR: a person who has lied or who lies repeatedly
LIBEL: 1. print slanderous statements against. 2. the written statement of a plaintiff explaining the cause of action (the defamation) and any relief he seeks. 
LIBYA: a military dictatorship in northern Africa on the Mediterranean; consists almost entirely of desert; a major exporter of petroleum
LIBYAN: of or relating to Libya or its people
LIBIDO: (psychoanalysis) a Freudian term for sexual urge or desire
LIBRA: 1. (astrology) a person who is born while the sun is in Libra. 2. a small faint zodiacal constellation in the southern hemisphere; between Virgo and Scorpius. 3. the seventh sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about September 23 to October 22. 
LYCEUM: a public hall for lectures and concerts
LICHEN: 1. any of several eruptive skin diseases characterized by hard thick lesions grouped together and resembling lichens growing on rocks. 2. any thallophytic plant of the division Lichenes; occur as crusty patches or bushy growths on tree trunks or rocks or bare ground etc.. 
LYCIA: an ancient region on the coast of southwest Asia Minor
LYCIAN: an Anatolian language
LICIT: sanctioned by custom or morality especially sexual morality
LYCIUM: deciduous and evergreen shrubs often spiny; cosmopolitan in temperate and subtropical regions
LICK: pass the tongue over
LICKED: having been got the better of
LYCOSA: type genus of the family Lycosidae
LID: a movable top or cover (hinged or separate) for closing the opening at the top of a box, chest, jar, pan, etc.
LIDAR: a measuring system that detects and locates objects on the same principle as radar but uses light from a laser; a potential technology for detecting air turbulence that can affect aircraft
LIDDED: 1. having or covered with a lid or lids; often used in combination. 2. having a lid. 
LYDIA: an ancient region on the coast of western Asia Minor; a powerful kingdom until conquered by the Persians in 546 BC
LYDIAN: an Anatolian language
LIDO: a recreational facility including a swimming pool for water sports
LIE: 1. be located or situated somewhere; occupy a certain position. 2. be lying, be prostrate; be in a horizontal position. 3. position or manner in which something is situated. 4. be and remain in a particular state or condition. 5. tell an untruth; pretend with intent to deceive. 6. have a place in relation to something else. 
LYE: a strong solution of sodium or potassium hydroxide
LIED: a German art song of the 19th century for voice and piano
LIEGE: 1. a feudal lord entitled to allegiance and service. 2. city in eastern Belgium; largest French-speaking city in Belgium. 3. owing or owed feudal allegiance and service. 
LIEN: the right to take another's property if an obligation is not discharged
LIFE: 1. a characteristic state or mode of living. 2. the experience of being alive; the course of human events and activities. 3. the course of existence of an individual; the actions and events that occur in living. 4. the period during which something is functional (as between birth and death). 5. the period between birth and the present time. 6. the period from the present until death. 7. a living person. 8. living things collectively. 9. the organic phenomenon that distinguishes living organisms from nonliving ones. 10. a motive for living. 
LIFER: a prisoner serving a term of life imprisonment
LIFT: 1. the act of giving temporary assistance. 2. a wave that lifts the surface of the water or ground. 3. a device worn in a shoe or boot to make the wearer look taller or to correct a shortened leg. 4. one of the layers forming the heel of a shoe or boot. 5. take off or away by decreasing. 6. the act of raising something. 7. take hold of something and move it to a different location. 8. move upwards. 9. make audible. 10. raise in rank or condition. 11. pay off (a mortgage). 12. take (root crops) out of the ground. 13. call to stop the hunt or to retire, as of hunting dogs. 14. rise upward, as from pressure or moisture. 15. put an end to. 16. remove (hair) by scalping. 17. remove from a seedbed or from a nursery. 18. remove from a surface. 
LIGAND: a substance (an atom or molecule or radical or ion) that forms a complex around a central atom
LIGATE: 1. join letters in a ligature when writing. 2. bind chemically. 3. bind with a bandage or ligature. 
LIGER: offspring of a male lion and a female tiger
LIGHT: 1. of comparatively little physical weight or density. 2. (used of color) having a relatively small amount of coloring agent. 3. of the military or industry; using (or being) relatively small or light arms or equipment. 4. psychologically light; especially free from sadness or troubles. 5. characterized by or emitting light. 6. the visual effect of illumination on objects or scenes as created in pictures. 7. easily assimilated in the alimentary canal; not rich or heavily seasoned. 8. (used of soil) loose and large-grained in consistency. 9. mental understanding as an enlightening experience. 10. demanding little effort; not burdensome. 11. (physics, chemistry) not having atomic weight greater than average. 12. not great in degree or quantity or number. 13. moving easily and quickly; nimble. 14. of little intensity or power or force. 15. very thin and insubstantial. 16. less than the correct or legal or full amount often deliberately so. 17. having little importance. 18. intended primarily as entertainment; not serious or profound. 19. designed for ease of movement or to carry little weight. 20. having relatively few calories. 21. (of sleep) easily disturbed. 
LIGNE: a linear unit (1/40 inch) used to measure diameter of buttons
LIGNIN: a complex polymer; the chief constituent of wood other than carbohydrates; binds to cellulose fibers to harden and strengthen cell walls of plants
LIGNUM: woody tissue
LIGULE: (botany) any appendage to a plant that is shaped like a strap
LYGUS: plant-sucking bugs
LYING: the deliberate act of deviating from the truth
LIKE: 1. resembling or similar; having the same or some of the same characteristics; often used in combination. 2. equal in amount or value. 3. be fond of. 4. feel about or towards; consider, evaluate, or regard. 5. want to have. 
LIKED: found pleasant or attractive; often used as a combining form
LIKELY: 1. has a good chance of being the case or of coming about. 2. expected to become or be; in prospect. 3. within the realm of credibility. 
LIKING: a feeling of pleasure and enjoyment
LIKUTA: 100 makuta equal 1 zaire in Zaire
LILAC: any of various plants of the genus Syringa having large panicles of usually fragrant flowers
LILY: any liliaceous plant of the genus Lilium having showy pendulous flowers
LYLY: English writer noted for his elaborate style (1554-1606)
LILITH: in ancient Semitic folklore: a female demon who attacks children
LILIUM: type genus of Liliaceae
LILLE: an industrial city in northern France near the Belgian border; was the medieval capital of Flanders
LILLIE: British actress (born in Canada) (1898-1989)
LILO: a type of inflatable air mattress
LILT: articulate in a very careful and rhythmic way
LIMA: capital and largest city and economic center of Peru; located in western Peru; was capital of the Spanish empire in the New World until the 19th century
LIMAN: a long narrow lagoon near the mouth of a river
LIMAX: a genus of Limacidae
LIMB: 1. one of the jointed appendages of an animal used for locomotion or grasping: arm; leg; wing; flipper. 2. any of the main branches arising from the trunk or a bough of a tree. 3. (astronomy) the circumferential edge of the apparent disc of the sun or the moon or a planet. 4. either of the two halves of a bow from handle to tip. 5. the graduated arc that is attached to an instrument for measuring angles. 
LIMBED: having or as if having limbs, especially limbs of a specified kind (usually used in combination)
LIMBER: 1. (used of e.g. personality traits) readily adaptable. 2. (used of artifacts) easily bent. 3. (used of persons' bodies) capable of moving or bending freely. 
LIMBIC: of or relating to or forming a limbus
LIMBO: 1. an imaginary place for lost or neglected things. 2. (theology) in Roman Catholicism, the place of unbaptized but innocent or righteous souls (such as infants and virtuous individuals). 
LIMBUS: a border or edge of any of various body parts distinguished by color or structure
LIME: 1. any of various related trees bearing limes. 2. the green acidic fruit of any of various lime trees. 3. cover with lime so as to induce growth. 
LIMEY: a man of English descent
LIMIT: 1. the greatest possible degree of something. 2. as far as something can go. 3. the boundary of a specific area. 4. the mathematical value toward which a function goes as the independent variable approaches infinity. 5. the greatest amount of something that is possible or allowed. 6. restrict or confine, "I limit you to two visits to the pub a day". 
LIMOSA: godwits
LIMP: 1. not firm. 2. lacking in strength or firmness or resilience. 
LIMPA: a rye bread made with molasses or brown sugar
LIMPET: 1. mollusk with a low conical shell. 2. any of various usually marine gastropods with low conical shells; found clinging to rocks in littoral areas. 
LYMPH: a thin coagulable fluid (similar to plasma but) containing white blood cells (lymphocytes) and chyle; is conveyed to the blood stream by lymphatic vessels
LIMPID: (of language) transparently clear; easily understandable
LIMPLY: without rigidity
LINAGE: 1. the number of lines in a piece of printed material. 2. a rate of payment for written material that is measured according to the number of lines submitted. 
LYNCH: kill without legal sanction
LINDEN: any of various deciduous trees of the genus Tilia with heart-shaped leaves and drooping cymose clusters of yellowish often fragrant flowers; several yield valuable timber
LINDY: an energetic American dance that was popular in the 1930s (probably named for the aviator Charles Lindbergh)
LINE: 1. be in line with; form a line along. 2. cover the interior of. 3. a formation of people or things one behind another. 4. mark with lines. 5. fill plentifully. 6. reinforce with fabric. 7. a fortified position (especially one marking the most forward position of troops). 8. a spatial location defined by a real or imaginary unidimensional extent. 9. the road consisting of railroad track and roadbed. 10. acting in conformity. 11. something (as a cord or rope) that is long and thin and flexible. 12. in games or sports; a mark indicating positions or bounds of the playing area. 13. a particular kind of product or merchandise. 14. a commercial organization serving as a common carrier. 15. persuasive but insincere talk that is usually intended to deceive or impress. 16. a conceptual separation or distinction. 
LINEAL: 1. in a straight unbroken line of descent from parent to child. 2. arranged in a line. 
LINEAR: 1. designating or involving an equation whose terms are of the first degree. 2. of or in or along or relating to a line; involving a single dimension. 3. (of a leaf shape) long and narrow. 4. measured lengthwise. 
LINED: 1. bordered by a line of things. 2. (used especially of skin) marked by lines or seams. 3. having a lining or a liner; often used in combination. 
LINEN: 1. a fabric woven with fibers from the flax plant. 2. a high-quality paper made of linen fibers or with a linen finish. 3. white goods or clothing made with linen cloth. 
LINER: 1. (baseball) a hit that flies straight out from the batter. 2. a piece of cloth that is used as the inside surface of a garment. 3. a large commercial ship (especially one that carries passengers on a regular schedule). 
LINEUP: a line of persons arranged by police for inspection or identification
LING: 1. water chestnut whose spiny fruit has two rather than 4 prongs. 2. elongated marine food fish of Greenland and northern Europe; often salted and dried. 3. American hakes. 
LINGAM: the Hindu phallic symbol of Siva
LINGER: 1. remain present although waning or gradually dying. 2. take one's time; proceed slowly. 
LININ: an obsolete term for the network of viscous material in the cell nucleus on which the chromatin granules were thought to be suspended
LINING: 1. a protective covering that protects an inside surface. 2. providing something with a surface of a different material. 3. the act of attaching an inside lining (to a garment or curtain etc.). 
LINK: 1. the means of connection between things linked in series. 2. a fastener that serves to join or connect. 3. a unit of length equal to 1/100 of a chain. 4. (computing) an instruction that connects one part of a program or an element on a list to another program or list. 5. an interconnecting circuit between two or more locations for the purpose of transmitting and receiving data. 
LINKS: a golf course that is built on sandy ground near a shore
LINNET: small Old World finch whose male has a red breast and forehead
LINT: 1. fine ravellings of cotton or linen fibers. 2. cotton or linen fabric with the nap raised on one side; used to dress wounds. 
LINUM: a herbaceous plant genus of the family Linaceae with small sessile leaves
LYNX: 1. a text browser. 2. short-tailed wildcats with usually tufted ears; valued for their fur. 
LINZ: city in northern Austria on the Danube; noted as a cultural center
LION: 1. large gregarious predatory feline of Africa and India having a tawny coat with a shaggy mane in the male. 2. a celebrity who is lionized (much sought after). 
LYON: a city in east-central France on the Rhone River; a principal producer of silk and rayon
LIONET: a small or young lion
LYONS: 1. the council in 1274 that effected a temporary reunion of the Greek Orthodox with the Roman Catholic Church. 2. the council of the Western Church in 1245 that excommunicated Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II and planned a new crusade against the Holy Land. 
LIP: 1. either of two fleshy folds of tissue that surround the mouth and play a role in speaking. 2. (botany) either of the two parts of a bilabiate corolla or calyx. 3. either the outer margin or the inner margin of the aperture of a gastropod's shell. 
LIPASE: an enzyme secreted in the digestive tract that catalyzes the breakdown of fats into individual fatty acids that can be absorbed into the bloodstream
LIPID: an oily organic compound insoluble in water but soluble in organic solvents; essential structural component of living cells (along with proteins and carbohydrates)
LIPOMA: a tumor consisting of fatty tissue
LIPPED: having a lip or lips
LIPPI: 1. Italian painter and son of Fra Filippo Lippi (1457-1504). 2. Italian painter whose works show a three-dimensional style (1406-1469). 
LIQUID: 1. existing as or having characteristics of a liquid; especially tending to flow. 2. filled or brimming with tears. 3. clear and bright. 4. a frictionless continuant that is not a nasal consonant (especially `l' and `r'). 5. smooth and flowing in quality; entirely free of harshness. 
LIQUOR: 1. an alcoholic beverage that is distilled rather than fermented. 2. a liquid substance that is a solution (or emulsion or suspension) used or obtained in an industrial process. 3. the liquid in which vegetables or meat have be cooked. 
LIR: the sea personified; father of Manannan; corresponds to Welsh Llyr
LIRA: 1. the basic unit of money on Malta; equal to 100 cents. 2. the basic unit of money in Turkey. 3. formerly the basic unit of money in Italy; equal to 100 centesimi. 
LYRA: a small constellation in the northern hemisphere near Cygnus and Draco; contains the star Vega
LYRATE: (of a leaf shape) having curvature suggestive of a lyre
LYRE: a harp used by ancient Greeks for accompaniment
LYRIC: 1. expressing deep emotion. 2. used of a singer or singing voice that is light in volume and modest in range. 3. relating to or being musical drama. 4. of or relating to a category of poetry that expresses emotion (often in a songlike way). 
LISBON: capital and largest city and economic and cultural center of Portugal; a major port in western Portugal on Tagus River where it broadens and empties into the Atlantic
LYSIN: any substance (such as an antibody) or agent that can cause lysis
LYSINE: an essential amino acid found in proteins; occurs especially in gelatin and casein
LYSIS: 1. recuperation in which the symptoms of an acute disease gradually subside. 2. (biochemistry) dissolution or destruction of cells such as blood cells or bacteria. 
LISLE: 1. a fabric woven with lisle thread. 2. a strong tightly twisted cotton thread (usually made of long-staple cotton). 
LYSOL: a clear oily brown solution of cresols in soap; used as an antiseptic and disinfectant
LISP: 1. speak with a lisp. 2. a flexible procedure-oriented programing language that manipulates symbols in the form of lists. 
LISPER: a speaker who lisps
LIST: 1. give or make a list of; name individually; give the names of. 2. include in a list. 3. cause to lean to the side. 4. tilt to one side. 
LISTED: on a list
LISTEN: 1. hear with intention. 2. listen and pay attention. 
LISTER: 1. English surgeon who was the first to use antiseptics (1827-1912). 2. assessor who makes out the tax lists. 3. moldboard plow with a double moldboard designed to move dirt to either side of a central furrow. 
LISZT: Hungarian composer and piano virtuoso (1811-1886)
LITANY: 1. any long and tedious address or recital. 2. a prayer consisting of a series of invocations by the priest with responses from the congregation. 
LITAS: the basic unit of money in Lithuania
LITCHI: 1. Chinese tree cultivated especially in Philippines and India for its edible fruit; sometimes placed in genus Nephelium. 2. Chinese fruit having a thin brittle shell enclosing a sweet jellylike pulp and a single seed; often dried. 
LITER: a metric unit of capacity, formerly defined as the volume of one kilogram of pure water under standard conditions; now equal to 1,000 cubic centimeters (or approximately 1.75 pints)
LITHIC: 1. of or containing lithium. 2. relating to or composed of stone. 
LITMUS: a coloring material (obtained from lichens) that turns red in acid solutions and blue in alkaline solutions; used as a very rough acid-base indicator
LITTER: 1. strew. 2. make a place messy by strewing garbage around. 3. give birth to a litter of animals. 
LITTLE: 1. not much. 2. (quantifier used with mass nouns) small in quantity or degree; not much or almost none or (with `a') at least some. 3. (of children and animals) young, immature. 4. (of a voice) faint. 5. lowercase. 6. small in a way that arouses feelings (of tenderness or its opposite depending on the context). 
LYTTON: English writer of historical romances (1803-1873)
LITTRE: French lexicographer (1801-1881)urdu
LIVE: 1. exerting force or containing energy. 2. abounding with life and energy. 3. not recorded. 4. highly reverberant. 5. charged with an explosive. 6. in current use or ready for use. 7. of current relevance. 
LIVEDO: skin disorder characterized by patchy bluish discolorations on the skin
LIVELY: 1. full of life and energy. 2. full of zest or vigor. 3. filled with events or activity. 
LIVER: 1. large and complicated reddish-brown glandular organ located in the upper right portion of the abdominal cavity; secretes bile and functions in metabolism of protein and carbohydrate and fat; synthesizes substances involved in the clotting of the blood; synthesizes vitamin A; detoxifies poisonous substances and breaks down worn-out erythrocytes. 2. liver of an animal used as meat. 3. a person who has a special life style. 4. someone who lives in a place. 
LIVERY: 1. uniform worn by some menservants and chauffeurs. 2. the care (feeding and stabling) of horses for pay. 
LIVY: Roman historian whose history of Rome filled 142 volumes (of which only 35 survive) including the earliest history of the war with Hannibal (59 BC to AD 17)
LIVID: 1. (of a light) imparting a deathlike luminosity. 2. furiously angry. 
LIVING: 1. true to life; lifelike. 2. pertaining to living persons. 3. (informal) absolute. 4. still in active use. 5. (used of minerals or stone) in its natural state and place; not mined or quarried; . 
LIZA: similar to the striped mullet and takes its place in the Caribbean region
LIZARD: relatively long-bodied reptile with usually two pairs of legs and a tapering tail
LLAMA: wild or domesticated South American cud-chewing animal related to camels but smaller and lacking a hump
LLANO: an extensive grassy and nearly treeless plain (especially in Latin America)
LLYR: Celtic deity who was the father of Manawydan; corresponds to Irish Lir
LLUD: a Celtic warrior god
LOACH: slender freshwater fishes of Eurasia and Africa resembling catfishes
LOAD: 1. fill or place a load on. 2. provide (a device) with something necessary. 3. put (something) on a structure or conveyance. 4. corrupt, debase, or make impure by adding a foreign or inferior substance; often by replacing valuable ingredients with inferior ones. 5. electrical device to which electrical power is delivered. 6. transfer from a storage device to a computer's memory. 
LOADED: 1. (of weapons) charged with ammunition. 2. (of statements or questions) charged with associative significance and often meant to mislead or influence. 
LOADER: an attendant who loads guns for someone shooting game
LOAF: a quantity of food (other than bread) formed in a particular shape
LOAFER: a low leather step-in shoe; the top resembles a moccasin but it has a broad flat heel
LOAM: a rich soil consisting of a mixture of sand and clay and decaying organic materials
LOAMY: consisting of or having the character of loam
LOAN: the temporary provision of money (usually at interest)
LOANER: a car that is lent as a replacement for one that is under repair
LOASA: any of various perennial South American plants of the genus Loasa having stinging hairs and showy white or yellow or reddish-orange flowers
LOATH: unwillingness to do something contrary to your custom
LOB: 1. propel in a high arc. 2. the act of propelling something (as a ball or shell etc.) in a high arc. 
LOBAR: of or relating to or affecting a lobe
LOBATA: ctenophore having tentacles only in the immature stage; body compressed vertically having two large oral lobes and four pointed processes
LOBATE: having or resembling a lobe or lobes
LOBBY: 1. the people who support some common cause or business or principle or sectional interest. 2. a group of people who try actively to influence legislation. 3. detain in conversation by or as if by holding on to the outer garments of; as for political or economic favors. 
LOBE: 1. (anatomy) a somewhat rounded subdivision of a bodily organ or part. 2. (botany) a part into which a leaf is divided. 3. the enhanced response of an antenna in a given direction as indicated by a loop in its radiation pattern. 4. a rounded projection that is part of a larger structure. 
LOBED: having deeply indented margins but with lobes not entirely separate from each other
LOBITO: a seaport on the Atlantic coast of Angola
LOBULE: a small lobe or subdivision of a lobe
LOCAL: 1. relating to or applicable to or concerned with the administration of a city or town or district rather than a larger area. 2. of or belonging to or characteristic of a particular locality or neighborhood. 3. affecting only a restricted part or area of the body. 
LOCATE: 1. discover the location of; determine the place of; find by searching or examining. 2. assign a location to. 
LOCH: 1. a long narrow inlet of the sea in Scotland (especially when it is nearly landlocked). 2. Scottish word for a lake. 
LOCHIA: substance discharged from the vagina (cellular debris and mucus and blood) that gradually decreases in amount during the weeks following childbirth
LOCK: 1. fasten with a lock. 2. a strand or cluster of hair. 3. become rigid or immoveable. 4. hold in a locking position. 5. a restraint incorporated into the ignition switch to prevent the use of a vehicle by persons who do not have the key. 6. hold fast (in a certain state). 7. pass by means through a lock in a waterway. 8. build locks in order to facilitate the navigation of vessels. 
LOCKE: English empiricist philosopher who believed that all knowledge is derived from sensory experience (1632-1704)
LOCKER: a fastener that locks or closes
LOCKET: a small ornamental case; usually contains a picture or a lock of hair and is worn on a necklace
LOCKUP: jail in a local police station
LOCULE: a small cavity or space within an organ or in a plant or animal
LOCUS: 1. the specific site of a particular gene on its chromosome. 2. the set of all points or lines that satisfy or are determined by specific conditions. 
LOCUST: 1. migratory grasshoppers of warm regions having short antennae. 2. hardwood from any of various locust trees. 
LODE: a deposit of valuable ore occurring within definite boundaries separating it from surrounding rocks
LODGE: 1. be a lodger; stay temporarily. 2. small house at the entrance to the grounds of a country mansion; usually occupied by a gatekeeper or gardener. 3. provide housing for. 4. any of various Native American dwellings. 5. put, fix, force, or implant. 
LODGER: a tenant in someone's house
LODZ: a large city of central Poland
LOESS: a fine-grained unstratified accumulation of clay and silt deposited by the wind
LOFT: 1. store in a loft. 2. propel through the air. 3. kick or strike high in the air. 4. lay out a full-scale working drawing of the lines of a vessel's hull. 
LOG: 1. enter into a log, as on ships and planes. 2. a written record of messages sent or received. 3. a written record of events on a voyage (of a ship or plane). 4. measuring instrument that consists of a float that trails from a ship by a knotted line in order to measure the ship's speed through the water. 5. cut lumber, as in woods and forests. 
LOGAN: a mountain peak in the St. Elias Range in the southwestern Yukon Territory in Canada (19,850 feet high)
LOGE: balcony consisting of the forward section of a theater mezzanine
LOGGIA: a roofed arcade or gallery with open sides stretching along the front or side of a building; often at an upper level
LOGIC: 1. the branch of philosophy that analyzes inference. 2. reasoned and reasonable judgment. 3. the principles that guide reasoning within a given field or situation. 4. the system of operations performed by a computer that underlies the machine's representation of logical operations. 5. a system of reasoning. 
LOGION: a saying of Jesus that is regarded as authentic although it is not recorded in the Gospels
LOGJAM: 1. any stoppage attributable to unusual activity. 2. an immovable mass of logs blocking a river. 
LOGO: a company emblem or device
LOYAL: steadfast in allegiance or duty
LOIN: 1. a cut of meat taken from the side and back of an animal between the ribs and the rump. 2. either side of the backbone between the hipbone and the ribs in humans as well as quadrupeds. 
LOINS: the region of the hips and groin and lower abdomen
LOIR: large European dormouse
LOIRE: the longest French river; rises in the Massif Central and flows north and west to the Atlantic Ocean
LOITER: be about
LOKI: (Norse mythology) trickster; god of discord and mischief; contrived death of Balder and was overcome by Thor
LOLIGO: somewhat flattened cylindrical squid
LOLITA: a sexually precocious young girl
LOLIUM: darnel; ryegrass
LOLLOP: walk clumsily and with a bounce
LOLO: a Loloish language
LOME: capital and largest city of Togo; located in the south on the Gulf of Guinea
LOMENT: seedpods that are constricted between the seeds and that break apart when mature into single-seeded segments
LONE: 1. characterized by or preferring solitude. 2. being the only one; single and isolated from others. 
LONELY: 1. marked by dejection from being alone. 2. devoid of creatures. 
LONER: a person who avoids the company or assistance of others
LONG: 1. for an extended time or at a distant time. 2. for an extended distance. 3. of relatively great height. 4. holding securities or commodities in expectation of a rise in prices. 5. (of speech sounds or syllables) of relatively long duration. 6. involving substantial risk. 7. having or being more than normal or necessary:"long on brains". 
LONGAN: tree of southeastern Asia to Australia grown primarily for its sweet edible fruit resembling litchi nuts; sometimes placed in genera Euphorbia or Nephelium
LONGER: for more time
LOOFA: the dried fibrous part of the fruit of a plant of the genus Luffa; used as a washing sponge or strainer
LOOFAH: the loofah climber that has cylindrical fruit
LOOK: 1. give a certain impression or have a certain outward aspect. 2. have a certain outward or facial expression. 3. perceive with attention; direct one's gaze towards. 4. convey by one's expression. 5. accord in appearance with. 
LOOM: 1. come into view indistinctly, often threateningly. 2. appear very large or occupy a commanding position. 3. weave on a loom. 
LOON: 1. a worthless lazy fellow. 2. large somewhat primitive fish-eating diving bird of the northern hemisphere having webbed feet placed far back; related to the grebes. 
LOOP: 1. make a loop in. 2. an inner circle of advisors (especially under President Reagan). 3. fasten or join with a loop. 4. a computer program that performs a series of instructions repeatedly until some specified condition is satisfied. 5. an intrauterine device in the shape of a loop. 6. a flight maneuver; aircraft flies a complete circle in the vertical plane. 7. move in loops. 8. fly loops, perform a loop. 
LOOPY: consisting of or covered with or having loops
LOOS: Austrian architect (1870-1933)
LOOSE: 1. without restraint. 2. (of a ball in sport) not in the possession or control of any player. 3. not tight; not closely constrained or constricted or constricting. 4. not tense or taut. 5. (of textures) full of small openings or gaps. 6. not carefully arranged in a package. 
LOOSEN: 1. make loose or looser. 2. make less dense. 3. become loose or looser or less tight. 
LOOT: take illegally; of intellectual property
LOOTED: wrongfully emptied or stripped of anything of value
LOPE: run easily
LOQUAT: 1. evergreen tree of warm regions having fuzzy yellow olive-sized fruit with a large free stone; native to China and Japan. 2. yellow olive-sized semitropical fruit with a large free stone and relatively little flesh; used for jellies. 
LORD: 1. a titled peer of the realm. 2. make a lord of someone. 
LORE: knowledge gained through tradition or anecdote
LOREN: Italian film actress (born in 1934)
LORENZ: Austrian zoologist who studied the behavior of birds and emphasized the importance of innate as opposed to learned behaviors (1903-1989)
LORY: small brightly colored Australasian parrots having a brush-tipped tongue for feeding on nectar and soft fruits
LORICA: a hard protective sheath (as secreted by certain protoctists, for example)
LORRY: 1. a large low horse-drawn wagon without sides. 2. a large truck designed to carry heavy loads; usually without sides. 
LOSE: 1. fail to keep or to maintain; cease to have, either physically or in an abstract sense. 2. fail to win. 3. suffer the loss of a person through death or removal. 4. miss from one's possessions; lose sight of. 5. allow to go out of sight. 6. fail to make money in a business; make a loss or fail to profit. 7. fail to get or obtain. 
LOSER: 1. a contestant who loses the contest. 2. a gambler who loses a bet. 
LOSS: 1. something that is lost. 2. gradual decline in amount or activity. 3. the act of losing someone or something. 4. the disadvantage that results from losing something. 5. the experience of losing a loved one. 6. the amount by which the cost of a business exceeds its revenue. 
LOSSY: characterized by or causing dissipation of energy
LOST: 1. no longer in your possession or control; unable to be found or recovered. 2. spiritually or physically doomed or destroyed. 3. not gained or won. 4. incapable of being recovered or regained. 5. not caught with the senses or the mind. 
LOT: 1. a parcel of land having fixed boundaries. 2. (Old Testament) nephew of Abraham; God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah but chose to spare Lot and his family who were told to flee without looking back at the destruction. 3. divide into lots, as of land, for example. 
LOTA: 1. a globular water bottle used in Asia. 2. burbot. 
LOTI: the basic unit of money in Lesotho
LOTIC: of or relating to or living in actively moving water
LOTION: 1. any of various cosmetic preparations that are applied to the skin. 2. liquid preparation having a soothing or antiseptic or medicinal action when applied to the skin. 
LOTTO: a game in which numbered balls are drawn at random and players cover the corresponding numbers on their cards
LOTUS: 1. native to eastern Asia; widely cultivated for its large pink or white flowers. 2. annual or perennial herbs or subshrubs. 3. white Egyptian lotus: water lily of Egypt to southeastern Africa; held sacred by the Egyptians. 
LOUCHE: of questionable taste or morality
LOUD: characterized by or producing sound of great volume or intensity
LOUDEN: 1. become louder. 2. cause to become loud. 
LOUDLY: with relatively high volume
LOUGH: 1. a long narrow (nearly landlocked) cove in Ireland. 2. Irish word for a lake. 
LOUNGE: 1. a room (as in a hotel or airport) with seating where people can wait. 2. sit or recline comfortably. 
LOUPE: small magnifying glass (usually set in an eyepiece) used by jewelers and horologists
LOUSE: wingless usually flattened bloodsucking insect parasitic on warm-blooded animals
LOUSY: infested with lice
LOUT: an awkward stupid person
LOUVAR: large silvery fish found worldwide in warm seas but nowhere common; resembles a whale and feeds on plankton
LOUVER: one of a set of parallel slats in a door or window to admit air and reject rain
LOUVRE: an art museum that is a famous tourist attraction in Paris
LOVAGE: 1. herb native to southern Europe; cultivated for its edible stalks and foliage and seeds. 2. stalks eaten like celery or candied like angelica; seeds used for flavoring or pickled like capers. 
LOVE: 1. have a great affection or liking for. 2. get pleasure from. 3. a deep feeling of sexual desire and attraction. 4. a score of zero in tennis or squash. 5. be enamored or in love with. 
LOVED: held dear
LOVELY: appealing to the emotions as well as the eye
LOVELL: English astronomer who pioneered radio astronomy (born in 1913)
LOVER: 1. a person who loves someone or is loved by someone. 2. a significant other to whom you are not related by marriage. 
LOVING: feeling or showing love and affection
LOW: 1. in a low position; near the ground. 2. literal meanings; being at or having a relatively small elevation or upward extension. 3. very low in volume. 4. unrefined in character. 5. used of sounds and voices; low in pitch or frequency. 
LOWBOY: a low chest or table with drawers and supported on four legs
LOWER: 1. move something or somebody to a lower position. 2. set lower. 3. cause to drop or sink. 
LOWEST: in the lowest position; nearest the ground
LOWRY: 1. English painter (1887-1976). 2. English novelist (1909-1957). 
LOX: brine-cured salmon that is lightly smoked
LOXIA: crossbill
LUANDA: port city on Atlantic coast; the capital and largest city of Angola
LUAU: an elaborate Hawaiian feast or party (especially one accompanied by traditional foods and entertainment)
LUBA: 1. a member of a Bantu people in southeastern Congo. 2. a Bantu language spoken in southeastern Congo. 
LUBECK: a city in northwestern Germany and an important Baltic port; a leading member of the Hanseatic League
LUBLIN: an industrial city of eastern Poland
LUCY: incomplete skeleton of female found in eastern Ethiopia in 1974
LUCID: having a clear mind
LUCITE: a transparent thermoplastic acrylic resin
LUCK: 1. an unknown and unpredictable phenomenon that causes an event to result one way rather than another. 2. an unknown and unpredictable phenomenon that leads to a favorable outcome. 
LUCKY: 1. occurring by chance. 2. having or bringing good fortune. 
LUDIAN: a Baltic-Finnic language
LUDO: a simple board game in which players move counters according to the throw of dice
LUFF: 1. sail close to the wind. 2. flap when the wind is blowing equally on both sides. 
LUFFA: any of several tropical annual climbers having large yellow flowers and edible young fruits; grown commercially for the mature fruit's dried fibrous interior that is used as a sponge
LUFKIN: a town in eastern Texas
LUG: 1. carry with difficulty. 2. a projecting piece that is used to lift or support or turn something. 
LUGE: a racing sled for one or two people
LUGER: 1. a German semiautomatic pistol. 2. someone who races the luge. 
LUGGER: small fishing boat rigged with one or more lugsails
LUGING: riding a light one-man toboggan
LUKE: 1. (New Testament) the Apostle closely associated with St. Paul and traditionally assumed to be the author of the third Gospel. 2. one of the four Gospels in the New Testament; contains details of Jesus's birth and early life. 
LULL: 1. become quiet or less intensive. 2. calm by deception. 
LULLY: 1. Spanish philosopher (1235-1315). 2. French composer (born in Italy) who was the court composer to Louis XIV and founded the national French opera (1632-1687). 
LUMBAR: of or relating to or near the part of the back between the ribs and the hipbones
LUMBER: move heavily or clumsily
LUMEN: 1. a unit of luminous flux equal to the amount of light given out through a solid angle of 1 steradian by a point source of 1 candela intensity radiating uniformly in all directions. 2. a cavity or passage in a tubular organ. 
LUMP: put together indiscriminately
LUMPER: a taxonomist who classifies organisms into large groups on the basis of major characteristics
LUMPY: having lumps; not smooth and even in texture
LUNA: (Roman mythology) the goddess of the Moon; counterpart of Greek Selene
LUNACY: obsolete terms for legal insanity
LUNAR: of or relating to or associated with the moon
LUNCH: 1. take the midday meal. 2. provide a midday meal for. 
LUND: a city in southern Sweden
LUNDA: puffins
LUNG: either of two saclike respiratory organs in the chest of vertebrates; serves to remove carbon dioxide and provide oxygen to the blood
LUNGE: 1. (fencing) an attacking thrust made with one foot forward and the back leg straight and with the sword arm outstretched forward. 2. make a thrusting forward movement. 
LUNGER: someone who moves forward suddenly (as in fencing)
LUNGI: a long piece of brightly colored cloth (cotton or silk) used as clothing (a skirt or loincloth or sash etc.) in India and Pakistan and Burma
LUNULA: a crescent-shaped metal ornament of the Bronze Age
LUO: a Nilotic language
LUPINE: of or relating to or characteristic of wolves
LUPUS: 1. any of several forms of ulcerative skin disease. 2. a constellation in the southern hemisphere near Centaurus. 
LURCH: 1. an unsteady uneven gait. 2. move abruptly. 3. move slowly and unsteadily. 4. the act of moving forward suddenly. 5. defeat by a lurch. 
LURE: qualities that attract by seeming to promise some kind of reward
LURID: 1. horrible in fierceness or savagery. 2. glaringly vivid and graphic; marked by sensationalism. 3. shining with an unnatural red glow as of fire seen through smoke. 4. ghastly pale. 
LURK: lie in wait, lie in ambush, behave in a sneaky and secretive manner
LURKER: someone waiting in concealment
LUSAKA: the capital and largest city of Zambia
LUSH: full of juice
LUST: self-indulgent sexual desire (personified as one of the deadly sins)
LUSTER: 1. a quality that outshines the usual. 2. a surface coating for ceramics or porcelain. 
LUTE: 1. a substance for packing a joint or coating a porous surface to make it impervious to gas or liquid. 2. chordophone consisting of a plucked instrument having a pear-shaped body, a usually bent neck, and a fretted fingerboard. 
LUTEAL: of or relating to the corpus luteum
LUTHER: German theologian who led the Reformation; believed that salvation is granted on the basis of faith rather than deeds (1483-1546)
LUTIST: a musician who plays the lute
LUTRA: in some classifications considered a genus of the subfamily Lutrinae
LUWIAN: an Anatolian language
LUX: a unit of illumination equal to 1 lumen per square meter; 0.0929 foot candle
LUXOR: a city in central Egypt on the east bank of the Nile that is a center for visitors to the ruins of and around Thebes
LUXURY: 1. something that is an indulgence rather than a necessity. 2. wealth as evidenced by sumptuous living. 
LUZON: the main island of the Philippines
LWEI: 100 lwei equal 1 kwanza in Angola
MAALOX: an antacid
MAAR: a flat-bottomed volcanic crater that was formed by an explosion; often filled with water
MACACA: macaques; rhesus monkeys
MACAO: a former Portuguese province on the south coast of China and two islands in the South China Sea; reverted to China in 1999
MACAW: long-tailed brilliantly colored parrot of Central America and South America; among the largest and showiest of parrots
MACE: 1. (trademark) a liquid that temporarily disables a person; prepared as an aerosol and sprayed in the face, it irritates the eyes and causes dizziness and immobilization. 2. spice made from the dried fleshy covering of the nutmeg seed. 3. a ceremonial staff carried as a symbol of office or authority. 
MACH: Austrian physicist and philosopher who introduced the Mach number and who founded logical positivism (1838-1916)
MACHO: a male exhibiting or characterized by machismo
MACKLE: a printed impression that is blurred or doubled
MACON: 1. a city in central Georgia to the southeast of Atlanta. 2. fine Burgundy wine usually white and dry. 
MACRO: very large in scale or scope or capability
MACRON: a diacritical mark (-) placed above a vowel to indicate a long sound
MACULA: a small yellowish central area of the retina that is rich in cones and that mediates clear detailed vision
MACULE: a patch of skin that is discolored but not usually elevated; caused by various diseases
MADAM: a woman who runs a house of prostitution
MADAME: title used for a married Frenchwoman
MADDEN: 1. cause to go crazy; cause to lose one's mind. 2. drive up the wall; go on someone's nerves. 3. make mad. 
MADDER: color a moderate to strong red
MADE: 1. produced by a manufacturing process; rope and nails". 2. (of a bed) having the sheets and blankets set in order. 3. successful or assured of success. 
MADIA: genus of sticky herbs with yellow flowers open in morning or evening but closed in bright light
MADLY: 1. in an uncontrolled manner. 2. (used as intensives) extremely. 
MADRAS: a light patterned cotton cloth
MADRID: the capital and largest city situated centrally in Spain; home of an outstanding art museum
MAENAD: 1. an unnaturally frenzied or distraught woman. 2. (Greek mythology) a woman participant in the orgiastic rites of Dionysus. 
MAFIA: 1. a crime syndicate in the United States; organized in families; believed to have important relations to the Sicilian Mafia. 2. a secret terrorist group in Sicily; originally opposed tyranny but evolved into a criminal organization in the middle of the 19th century. 3. any tightly knit group of trusted associates. 
MAGGOT: the larva of the housefly and blowfly commonly found in decaying organic matter
MAGH: the eleventh month of the Hindu calendar; corresponds to January in the Gregorian calendar
MAGIC: any art that invokes supernatural powers
MAGMA: molten rock in the earth's crust
MAGNET: (physics) a device that attracts iron and produces a magnetic field
MAGNUM: a large wine bottle for liquor or wine
MAGPIE: 1. long-tailed black-and-white crow that utters a raucous chattering call. 2. someone who collects things that have been discarded by others. 
MAGUEY: 1. Mexican plant used especially for making pulque which is the source of the colorless Mexican liquor, mescal. 2. Philippine plant yielding a hard fibre used in making coarse twine. 
MAGUS: 1. a magician or sorcerer of ancient times. 2. a member of the Zoroastrian priesthood of the ancient Persians. 
MAHDI: (Islam) a messianic leader who (according to popular Muslim belief) will appear before the end of the world and restore justice and religion
MAHLER: Austrian composer and conductor (1860-1911)
MAHOE: shrubby tree widely distributed along tropical shores; yields a light tough wood used for canoe outriggers and a fiber used for cordage and caulk; often cultivated for ornament
MAHOUT: the driver and keeper of an elephant
MAY: the month following April and preceding June
MAYA: a family of American Indian languages spoken by Maya
MAYACA: small genus of delicate mossy bog plants having white or violet flowers
MAYAN: a member of an American Indian people of Yucatan and Belize and Guatemala who had a culture (which reached its peak between AD 300 and 900) characterized by outstanding architecture and pottery and astronomy
MAYAS: an ethnic minority speaking Mayan languages and living in Yucatan and adjacent areas
MAID: 1. a female domestic. 2. an unmarried girl (especially a virgin). 
MAYDAY: an internationally recognized distress signal via radiotelephone (from the French m'aider)
MAIDU: a member of a North American Indian people living east of the Sacramento river in California
MAYFLY: slender insect with delicate membranous wings having an aquatic larval stage and terrestrial adult stage usually lasting less than two days
MAIGRE: large European marine food fish
MAYHEM: the willful and unlawful crippling or mutilation of another person
MAIL: 1. send via the postal service. 2. cause to be directed or transmitted to another place. 3. a conveyance that transports the letters and packages that are conveyed by the postal system. 4. any particular collection of letters or packages that is delivered. 
MAILER: 1. United States writer (born in 1923). 2. a person who mails something. 3. an advertisement that is sent by mail. 4. a container for something to be mailed. 
MAIM: injure or wound seriously and leave permanent disfiguration or mutilation
MAIMED: having a part of the body crippled or disabled
MAIN: 1. any very large body of (salt) water. 2. a principal pipe in a system that distributes water or gas or electricity or that collects sewage. 3. of force; of the greatest possible intensity. 
MAINE: a state in New England
MAINER: a native or resident of Maine
MAYOR: the head of a city government
MAYPOP: of southern United States; having an insipid berry the size of a hen egg
MAJA: type genus of the Majidae; nearly cosmopolitan in distribution
MAJOR: 1. of greater importance or stature or rank. 2. greater in scope or effect. 3. greater in number or size or amount. 4. of the field of academic study in which one concentrates or specializes. 5. of a scale or mode. 6. of greater seriousness or danger. 7. of full legal age. 8. of the elder of two boys with the same family name. 
MAKALU: a mountain in the Himalayas in Nepal (27,790 feet high)
MAKE: 1. engage in. 2. give certain properties to something. 3. make or cause to be or to become. 4. compel or make somebody or something to act in a certain way. 5. be or be capable of being changed or made into. 6. make by shaping or bringing together constituents. 7. perform or carry out. 8. change from one form into another. 9. act in a certain way so as to acquire. 10. carry out or commit. 11. form by assembling individuals or constituents. 12. put in order or neaten. 13. undergo fabrication or creation. 14. be suitable for. 15. add up to. 16. amount to. 17. constitute the essence of. 18. appear to begin an activity. 19. proceed along a path. 20. reach in time. 21. gather and light the materials for. 22. assure the success of. 23. represent fictitiously, as in a play, or pretend to be or act like. 24. consider as being. 25. calculate as being. 26. cause to be enjoyable or pleasurable. 27. favor the development of. 28. develop into. 29. behave in a certain way. 30. eliminate urine. 
MAKER: a person who makes things
MAKEUP: 1. cosmetics applied to the face to improve or change your appearance. 2. an event that is substituted for a previously cancelled event. 
MAKING: (usually plural) the components needed for making or doing something
MAKO: powerful mackerel shark of the Atlantic and Pacific
MALABO: the capital and largest city of Equatorial Guinea on the island of Bioko in the Gulf of Guinea
MALADY: any unwholesome or desperate condition
MALAGA: a port city and resort in Andalusia in southern Spain on the Mediterranean
MALAY: 1. of or relating to or characteristic of the people or language of Malaysia and the northern Malay Peninsula and parts of the western Malay Archipelago. 2. a western subfamily of Western Malayo-Polynesian languages. 
MALAWI: a landlocked republic in southern central Africa; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1964
MALDON: a battle in which the Danes defeated the Saxons in 991; celebrated in an old English poem
MALE: 1. being the sex (of plant or animal) that produces gametes (spermatozoa) that perform the fertilizing function in generation. 2. characteristic of a man. 3. for or pertaining to or composed of men or boys. 
MALEO: Celebes megapode that lays eggs in holes in sandy beaches
MALI: a landlocked republic in northwestern Africa; achieved independence from France in 1960; Mali was a center of West African civilization for more than 4,000 years
MALICE: feeling a need to see others suffer
MALIGN: evil or harmful in nature or influence
MALIK: the leader of a town or community in some parts of Asia Minor and the Indian subcontinent
MALLEE: any of several low-growing Australian eucalypts
MALLET: 1. a sports implement with a long handle and a head like a hammer; used in sports (polo or croquet) to hit a ball. 2. a light drumstick with a rounded head that is used to strike such percussion instruments as chimes, kettledrums, marimbas, glockenspiels, etc.. 3. a tool resembling a hammer but with a large head (usually wooden); used to drive wedges or ram down paving stones or for crushing or beating or flattening or smoothing. 
MALLOW: any of various plants of the family Malvaceae
MALMO: a port in southern Sweden
MALONE: English scholar remembered for his chronology of Shakespeare's plays and his editions of Shakespeare and Dryden (1741-1812)
MALOPE: western Mediterranean annual having deep purple-red flowers subtended by 3 large cordate bracts
MALORY: English writer who published a translation of romances about King Arthur taken from French and other sources (died in 1471)
MALT: 1. turn into malt, become malt. 2. convert grain into malt. 3. treat with malt or malt extract. 4. convert into malt. 
MALTA: 1. a republic on the island of Malta in the Mediterranean; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1964. 2. a strategically located island to the south of Sicily in the Mediterranean Sea. 
MALTED: of grain that has been converted into malt
MALTHA: a thick black tar intermediate between petroleum and asphalt
MALTO: 1. a member of the Dravidian people living in northern Bengal in eastern India. 2. the Dravidian language spoken by the Malto. 
MALUS: apple trees; found throughout temperate zones of the northern hemisphere
MALVA: herbs and subshrubs: mallows
MAM: 1. a member of a Mayan people of southwestern Guatemala. 2. a Mayan language spoken by the Mam. 
MAMA: a name under which Ninkhursag was worshipped
MAMBA: arboreal snake of central and southern Africa whose bite is often fatal
MAMBO: dance a mambo
MAMEY: globular or ovoid tropical fruit with thick russet leathery rind and juicy yellow or reddish flesh
MAMMAL: any warm-blooded vertebrate having the skin more or less covered with hair; young are born alive except for the small subclass of monotremes and nourished with milk
MAMMEA: American and Asiatic trees having edible one-seeded fruit
MAMMY: an offensive term for a Black nursemaid in the southern U.S.
MAMMON: 1. wealth regarded as an evil influence. 2. (New Testament) a personification of wealth and avarice as an evil spirit. 
MAMMUT: extinct type genus of the Mammutidae: mastodons
MAMO: black honeycreepers with yellow feathers around the tail; now extinct
MAN: 1. take charge of a certain job; occupy a certain work place. 2. the generic use of the word to refer to any human being. 3. a male subordinate. 4. an adult male person who has a manly character (virile and courageous competent). 5. a male person who plays a significant role (husband or lover or boyfriend) in the life of a particular woman. 6. one of the British Isles in the Irish Sea. 7. game equipment consisting of an object used in playing certain board games. 8. provide with workers. 
MANAGE: be in charge of, act on, or dispose of
MANAMA: the capital of Bahrain; located at the northern end of Bahrain Island
MANANA: an indefinite time in the future
MANAT: 1. the basic unit of money in Turkmenistan. 2. the basic unit of money in Azerbaijan. 
MANCHU: 1. a member of the Manchu speaking people of Mongolian race of Manchuria; related to the Tungus; conquered China in the 17th century. 2. the Tungusic language spoken by the Manchu. 
MANDA: a Dravidian language spoken in south central India
MANDE: a group of African languages in the Niger-Congo group spoken from Senegal east as far as the Ivory Coast
MANE: 1. long coarse hair growing from the crest of the animal's neck. 2. growth of hair covering the scalp of a human being. 
MANES: a Persian prophet who founded Manichaeism (216-276)
MANET: French painter whose work influenced the impressionists (1832-1883)
MANGE: a persistent and contagious disease of the skin causing inflammation and itching and loss of hair; affects domestic animals (and sometimes people)
MANGER: a container (usually in a barn or stable) from which cattle or horses feed
MANGY: having many worn or threadbare spots in the nap
MANGLE: 1. press with a mangle. 2. alter so as to make unrecognizable. 
MANGO: 1. large evergreen tropical tree cultivated for its large oval fruit. 2. large oval tropical fruit having smooth skin, juicy aromatic pulp, and a large hairy seed. 
MANY: a quantifier that can be used with count nouns and is often preceded by `as' or `too' or `so' or `that'; amounting to a large but indefinite number
MANIA: 1. an irrational but irresistible motive for a belief or action. 2. a mood disorder; an affective disorder in which the victim tends to respond excessively and sometimes violently. 
MANIAC: a person who has an obsession with or excessive enthusiasm for something
MANILA: 1. a strong paper or thin cardboard with a smooth light brown finish made from e.g. Manila hemp. 2. the capital and largest city of the Philippines; located on southern Luzon. 
MANIS: type genus of the Manidae
MANKY: inferior and worthless
MANLY: possessing qualities befitting a man
MANNA: hardened sugary exudation of various trees
MANNED: having a crew
MANNER: 1. how something is done or how it happens. 2. a way of acting or behaving. 3. a kind. 
MANOR: 1. the mansion of a lord or wealthy person. 2. the landed estate of a lord (including the house on it). 
MANQUE: unfulfilled or frustrated in realizing an ambition
MANSE: the residence of a clergyman (especially a Presbyterian clergyman)
MANSON: Scottish physician who discovered that elephantiasis is spread by mosquitos and suggested that mosquitos also spread malaria (1844-1922)
MANTA: 1. a blanket that is used as a cloak or shawl. 2. extremely large pelagic tropical ray that feeds on plankton and small fishes; usually harmless but its size make it dangerous if harpooned. 
MANTEL: shelf that projects from wall above fireplace
MANTIS: predacious long-bodied large-eyed insect of warm regions; rests with forelimbs raised as in prayer
MANTLE: 1. spread over a surface, like a mantle. 2. cover like a mantle. 3. the layer of the earth between the crust and the core. 4. (zoology) a protective layer of epidermis in mollusks or brachiopods that secretes a substance forming the shell. 
MANTRA: 1. a commonly repeated word or phrase. 2. (Sanskrit) literally a `sacred utterance' in Vedism; one of a collection of orally transmitted poetic hymns. 
MANTUA: loose gown of the 17th and 18th centuries
MANUAL: 1. of or relating to the hands. 2. requiring human effort. 3. doing or requiring physical work. 
MANUL: small wildcat of the mountains of Siberia and Tibet and Mongolia
MANURE: spread manure, as for fertilization
MANX: 1. of or relating to the Isle of Man or its inhabitants or their language. 2. a short-haired tailless breed of cat believed to originate on the Isle of Man. 
MAO: Chinese communist leader (1893-1976)
MAOISM: a form of communism developed in China by Mao Zedong
MAOIST: of or relating to Maoism
MAORI: 1. an ethnic minority of Polynesian and Melanesian descent who speak Maori and live in New Zealand. 2. the Oceanic language spoken by the Maori in New Zealand. 
MAP: 1. make a map of; show or establish the features of details of. 2. explore or survey for the purpose of making a map. 3. locate within a specific region of a chromosome in relation to known DNA or gene sequences. 4. plan, delineate, or arrange in detail. 5. depict as if on a map. 6. to establish a mapping (of mathematical elements or sets). 
MAPLE: 1. wood of any of various maple trees; especially the hard close-grained wood of the sugar maple; used especially for furniture and flooring. 2. any of numerous trees or shrubs of the genus Acer bearing winged seeds in pairs; north temperate zone. 
MAPUTO: the capital and largest city of Mozambique
MAQUIS: 1. a guerrilla fighter in the French underground in World War II. 2. the French underground that fought against the German occupation in World War II. 
MAR: make imperfect
MARA: 1. Hindu god of death; opposite of Kama. 2. hare-like rodent of the pampas of Argentina. 
MARACA: a percussion instrument consisting of a hollow gourd containing pebbles or beans; often played in pairs
MARANG: 1. Philippine tree similar to the breadfruit tree bearing edible fruit. 2. tropical fruit from the Philippines having a mass of small seeds embedded in sweetish white pulp. 
MARAT: French revolutionary leader (born in Switzerland) who was a leader in overthrowing the Girondists and was stabbed to death in his bath by Charlotte Corday (1743-1793)
MARAUD: raid and rove in search of booty
MARBLE: 1. paint or stain like marble. 2. a small ball of glass that is used in various games. 3. a sculpture carved from marble. 
MARC: made from residue of grapes or apples after pressing
MARCEL: make a marcel in a woman's hair
MARCH: 1. march in a procession. 2. force to march. 3. walk fast, with regular or measured steps; walk with a stride. 4. a procession of people walking together. 5. cause to march or go at a marching pace. 
MARCHE: a region in central Italy
MARDUK: the chief Babylonian god; his consort was Sarpanitu
MARE: 1. female equine animal. 2. a dark region of considerable extent on the surface of the moon. 
MARGAY: small spotted wildcat found from Texas to Brazil
MARGIN: 1. the boundary line or the area immediately inside the boundary. 2. an amount beyond the minimum necessary. 3. the amount of collateral a customer deposits with a broker when borrowing from the broker to buy securities. 4. the blank space that surrounds the text on a page. 
MARY: the mother of Jesus; Christians refer to her as the Virgin Mary; she is especially honored by Roman Catholics
MARIA: valuable timber tree of Panama
MARIAN: of or relating to or venerating the Virgin Mary
MARINA: a fancy dock for small yachts and cabin cruisers
MARINE: 1. of or relating to the sea. 2. a soldier who serves both on shipboard and on land. 3. of or relating to military personnel who serve both on land and at sea (specifically the U.S. Marine Corps). 4. relating to or characteristic of or occurring on or in the sea. 5. native to or inhabiting the sea. 
MARINI: Italian poet (1569-1625)
MARK: 1. a number or letter indicating quality (especially of a student's performance). 2. a visible indication made on a surface. 3. make or leave a mark on. 4. a symbol of disgrace or infamy. 5. formerly the basic unit of money in Germany. 6. Apostle and companion of Saint Peter; assumed to be the author of the second Gospel. 7. a written or printed symbol (as for punctuation). 8. the shortest of the four Gospels in the New Testament. 9. designate as if by a mark. 
MARKED: 1. strongly marked; easily noticeable. 2. singled out for notice or especially for a dire fate. 3. having or as if having an identifying mark or a mark as specified; often used in combination. 
MARKER: 1. some conspicuous object used to distinguish or mark something. 2. a distinguishing symbol. 3. a writing implement for making a mark. 
MARKET: 1. engage in the commercial promotion, sale, or distribution of. 2. buy household supplies. 3. the securities markets in the aggregate. 4. deal in a market. 
MARKKA: formerly the basic unit of money in Finland
MARKOV: Russian mathematician (1856-1922)
MARKS: English businessman who created a retail chain (1888-1964)
MARKUP: 1. the amount added to the cost to determine the asking price. 2. detailed stylistic instructions for typesetting something that is to be printed; manual markup is usually written on the copy (e.g. underlining words that are to be set in italics). 
MARL: a loose and crumbling earthy deposit consisting mainly of calcite or dolomite; used as a fertilizer for soils deficient in lime
MARLEY: Jamaican singer who popularized reggae (1945-1981)
MARLY: of or relating to or resembling or abounding in marl
MARLIN: large long-jawed oceanic sport fishes; related to sailfishes and spearfishes; not completely cold-blooded i.e. able to warm their brains and eyes
MARMOT: stocky coarse-furred burrowing rodent with a short bushy tail found throughout the northern hemisphere; hibernates in winter
MAROON: 1. of dark brownish to purplish red. 2. leave stranded on a desert island without resources. 3. an exploding firework used as a warning signal. 
MARRED: blemished by injury or rough wear
MARRY: 1. take in marriage. 2. perform a marriage ceremony. 
MARROW: 1. the fatty network of connective tissue that fills the cavities of bones. 2. any of various squash plants grown for their elongated fruit with smooth dark green skin and whitish flesh. 3. very tender and very nutritious tissue from marrowbones. 4. large elongated squash with creamy to deep green skins. 
MARS: 1. a small reddish planet that is the 4th from the sun and is periodically visible to the naked eye; minerals rich in iron cover its surface and are responsible for its characteristic color. 2. (Roman mythology) Roman god of war and agriculture; father of Romulus and Remus; counterpart of Greek Ares. 
MARSH: 1. low-lying wet land with grassy vegetation; usually is a transition zone between land and water. 2. United States painter (1898-1954). 3. New Zealand writer of detective stories (1899-1982). 
MARTEN: agile slender-bodied arboreal mustelids somewhat larger than weasels
MARTES: martens
MARTI: Cuban poet and revolutionary who fought for Cuban independence from Spain (1853-1895)
MARTYR: 1. kill as a martyr. 2. torture and torment like a martyr. 
MARUT: any of a group of Hindu storm gods; offspring of Rudra
MARVEL: express astonishment or surprise about something
MASA: an independent group of closely related Chadic languages spoken in the area between the Biu-Mandara and East Chadic languages
MASAI: a Nilotic language
MASCOT: a person or animal that is adopted by a team or other group as a symbolic figure
MASER: an acronym for microwave amplification by stimulated emission of radiation; an amplifier that works on the same principle as a laser and emits coherent microwave radiation
MASERU: the capital of Lesotho; located in northwestern Lesotho
MASH: 1. a mixture of mashed malt grains and hot water; used in brewing. 2. mixture of ground animal feeds. 
MASHER: a kitchen utensil used for mashing (e.g. potatoes)
MASHIE: middle-distance iron
MASJID: (Islam) a Muslim place of worship
MASK: 1. a covering to disguise or conceal the face. 2. put a mask on or cover with a mask. 3. cover with a sauce. 4. shield from light. 
MASKED: having markings suggestive of a mask
MASON: 1. American Revolutionary leader from Virginia whose objections led to the drafting of the Bill of Rights (1725-1792). 2. English film actor (1909-1984). 3. English writer (1865-1948). 4. a craftsman who works with stone or brick. 
MASS: 1. join together into a mass or collect or form a mass. 2. an ill-structured collection of similar things (objects or people). 3. (Roman Catholic Church and Protestant Churches) the celebration of the Eucharist. 4. a body of matter without definite shape. 5. a musical setting for a Mass. 6. a sequence of prayers constituting the Christian Eucharistic rite. 
MASSE: a shot in billiards made by hitting the cue ball with the cue held nearly vertically; the cue ball spins around another ball before hitting the object ball
MASSIF: a block of the earth's crust bounded by faults and shifted to form peaks of a mountain range
MAST: 1. a vertical spar for supporting sails. 2. nuts of forest trees (as beechnuts and acorns) accumulated on the ground. 3. nuts of forest trees used as feed for swine. 4. any sturdy upright pole. 
MASTED: having or furnished with a mast; often used in combination
MASTER: 1. have a firm understanding or knowledge of; be on top of. 2. an original creation (i.e., an audio recording) from which copies can be made. 3. an officer who is licensed to command a merchant ship. 4. someone who holds a master's degree from academic institution. 5. an authority qualified to teach apprentices. 6. be or become completely proficient or skilled in. 
MASTIC: 1. an aromatic exudate from the mastic tree; used chiefly in varnishes. 2. a pasty cement used as an adhesive or filler. 3. an evergreen shrub of the Mediterranean region that is cultivated for its resin. 
MAT: 1. a thick flat pad used as a floor covering. 2. mounting consisting of a border or background for a picture. 3. sports equipment consisting of a piece of thick padding on the floor for gymnastic sports. 4. a mass that is densely tangled or interwoven. 5. a small pad of material that is used to protect surface from an object placed on it. 
MATAI: conifer of Australia and New Zealand
MATCH: 1. be compatible, similar or consistent; coincide in their characteristics. 2. provide funds complementary to. 3. bring two objects, ideas, or people together. 4. an exact duplicate. 5. make correspond or harmonize. 6. be equal or harmonize. 7. give or join in marriage. 
MATE: 1. the officer below the master on a commercial ship. 2. the partner of an animal (especially a sexual partner). 3. one of a pair. 4. South American holly; leaves used in making a drink like tea. 5. informal term for a friend of the same sex. 6. South American tea-like drink made from leaves of a South American holly called mate. 
MATED: 1. mated sexually. 2. used of gloves, socks, etc.. 3. of or relating to a marriage partner. 
MATER: an informal use of the Latin word for mother; sometimes used by British schoolboys or used facetiously
MATINS: the first canonical hour; at daybreak
MATRIX: 1. (mathematics) a rectangular array of quantities or expressions set out by rows and columns; treated as a single element and manipulated according to rules. 2. (geology) amass of fine-grained rock in which fossils, crystals, or gems are embedded. 3. an enclosure within which something originates or develops (from the Latin for womb). 4. the body substance in which tissue cells are embedded. 5. the formative tissue at the base of a nail. 6. mold used in the production of phonograph records, type, or other relief surface. 
MATRON: 1. a married woman (usually middle-aged with children) who is staid and dignified. 2. a wardress in a prison. 3. a woman in charge of nursing in a medical institution. 
MATTE: a mixture of sulfides that forms when sulfide metal ores are smelted
MATTED: tangled in a dense mass
MATTER: 1. a vaguely specified concern. 2. that which has mass and occupies space. 3. a problem. 4. (used with negation) having consequence. 5. written works (especially in books or magazines). 
MATURE: 1. characteristic of maturity. 2. fully considered and perfected. 3. having reached full natural growth or development. 
MATZO: brittle flat bread eaten at Passover
MAUI: the second largest of the Hawaiian Islands
MAUL: 1. split (wood) with a maul and wedges. 2. injure badly by beating. 
MAULER: a fighter who batters the opponent
MAUND: a unit of weight used in Asia; has different values in different countries
MAUNDY: a public ceremony on Maundy Thursday when the monarch distributes Maundy money
MAUSER: 1. German arms manufacturer and inventor of a repeating rifle and pistol (1838-1914). 2. trademark for a repeating rifle or pistol. 
MAUVE: of a pale to moderate greyish violet color
MAXI: used of women's clothing having a hemline at the ankle
MAXIM: 1. a saying that is widely accepted on its own merits. 2. English inventor (born in the United States) who invented the Maxim gun that was used in World War I (1840-1916). 
MAZAMA: brockets
MAZE: complex system of paths or tunnels in which it is easy to get lost
MAZER: a large hardwood drinking bowl
MEAGER: deficient in amount or quality or extent
MEAL: 1. the food served and eaten at one time. 2. any of the occasions for eating food that occur by custom or habit at more or less fixed times. 3. coarsely ground foodstuff; especially seeds of various cereal grasses or pulse. 
MEALY: containing meal or made of meal
MEALIE: an ear of corn
MEAN: 1. mean or intend to express or convey. 2. denote or connote. 3. have a specified degree of importance. 4. destine or designate for a certain purpose. 5. excellent. 6. (used of persons or behavior) characterized by or indicative of lack of generosity. 
MEANIE: a person of mean disposition
MEANLY: 1. in a despicable, ignoble manner. 2. poorly or in an inferior manner. 3. in a miserly manner. 
MEANS: 1. how a result is obtained or an end is achieved. 2. an instrumentality for accomplishing some end. 3. considerable capital (wealth or income). 
MEASLY: contemptibly small in amount
MEAT: the flesh of animals (including fishes and birds and snails) used as food
MEATY: 1. like or containing meat; let's have a meaty meal". 2. being on topic and prompting thought. 
MEATUS: a natural body passageway
MECCA: 1. joint capital (with Riyadh) of Saudi Arabia; located in western Saudi Arabia; as the birthplace of Muhammad it is the holiest city of Islam. 2. a place that attracts many visitors. 
MEDAN: a city in Indonesia; located in northeastern Sumatra
MEDDLE: intrude in other people's affairs or business; interfere unwantedly
MEDEA: (Greek mythology) a princess of Colchis who aided Jason in taking the Golden Fleece from her father
MEDIAL: dividing an animal into right and left halves
MEDIAN: 1. relating to or constituting the middle value of an ordered set of values (or the average of the middle two in a set with an even number of values). 2. relating to or situated in or extending toward the middle. 
MEDIC: any of several Old World herbs of the genus Medicago having small flowers and trifoliate compound leaves
MEDICI: aristocratic Italian family of powerful merchants and bankers who ruled Florence in the 15th century
MEDINA: 1. a city in western Saudi Arabia; site of the tomb of Muhammad; the second most holy city of Islam. 2. the ancient quarter of many cities in northern Africa. 
MEDIUM: 1. a means or instrumentality for storing or communicating information. 2. (meat) cooked until there is just a little pink meat inside. 3. an intervening substance through which signals can travel as a means for communication. 4. a liquid with which pigment is mixed by a painter. 5. (biology) a substance in which specimens are preserved or displayed. 6. an intervening substance through which something is achieved. 7. a state that is intermediate between extremes; a middle position. 8. someone who serves as an intermediary between the living and the dead. 9. (usually plural) transmissions that are disseminated widely to the public. 
MEDLAR: 1. small deciduous Eurasian tree cultivated for its fruit that resemble crab apples. 2. a South African globular fruit with brown leathery skin and pithy flesh having a sweet-acid taste. 3. crabapple-like fruit used for preserves. 
MEDLEY: a musical composition consisting of a series of songs or other musical pieces from various sources
MEDOC: red Bordeaux wine from the Medoc district of southwestern France
MEDUSA: 1. (Greek mythology) a woman transformed into a Gorgon by Athena; she was slain by Perseus. 2. one of two forms that coelenterates take: it is the free-swimming sexual phase in the life cycle of a coelenterate; in this phase it has a gelatinous umbrella-shaped body and tentacles. 
MEED: a fitting reward
MEEK: 1. humble in spirit or manner; suggesting retiring mildness or even cowed submissiveness. 2. very docile. 3. evidencing little spirit or courage; overly submissive or compliant. 
MEEKLY: in a submissive or spiritless manner
MEET: 1. come together. 2. get together socially or for a specific purpose. 3. fill or meet a want or need. 4. satisfy a condition or restriction. 5. satisfy or fulfill. 6. collect in one place. 7. get to know; get acquainted with. 8. meet by design; be present at the arrival of. 9. contend against an opponent in a sport, game, or battle. 10. experience as a reaction. 
MEGILP: a medium for oil-paints; linseed oil mixed with mastic varnish or turpentine
MEGOHM: a unit of resistance equal to one million ohms
MEIR: Israeli statesman (born in Russia) (1898-1978)
MEKONG: an Asian river; flows through a large delta in southern Vietnam into the South China Sea
MELBA: Australian operatic soprano (1861-1931)
MELD: announce for a score; of cards in a card game
MELEE: a noisy riotous fight
MELENA: abnormally dark tarry feces containing blood (usually from gastrointestinal bleeding)
MELES: in some classifications: type genus of the subfamily Melinae
MELIA: type genus of the Meliaceae: East Indian and Australian deciduous trees with leaves resembling those of the ash
MELLOW: 1. soften, make mellow. 2. having a full and pleasing flavor through proper aging. 3. having attained to kindliness or gentleness through age and experience. 4. having attained to kindliness or gentleness through age and experience. 
MELODY: the perception of pleasant arrangements of musical notes
MELON: 1. any of numerous fruits of the gourd family having a hard rind and sweet juicy flesh. 2. any of various fruit of cucurbitaceous vines including: muskmelons; watermelons; cantaloupes; cucumbers. 
MELOSA: South American herb with sticky glandular foliage; source of madia oil
MELT: 1. reduce or cause to be reduced from a solid to a liquid state, usually by heating. 2. lose its distinct outline or shape; blend gradually. 3. become less intense and fade away gradually. 
MELTED: changed from a solid to a liquid state
MELTER: a worker who melts substances (metal or wax etc.)
MEMBER: 1. one of the persons who compose a social group (especially individuals who have joined and participate in a group organization). 2. anything that belongs to a set or class. 3. an organization that is a member of another organization (especially a state that belongs to a group of nations). 
MEMO: a written proposal or reminder
MEMOIR: 1. an account of the author's personal experiences. 2. an essay on a scientific or scholarly topic. 
MEMORY: 1. something that is remembered. 2. the cognitive processes whereby past experience is remembered. 3. the power of retaining and recalling past experience. 4. an electronic memory device. 5. the area of cognitive psychology that studies memory processes. 
MENACE: 1. something that is a source of danger. 2. express a threat either by an utterance or a gesture. 3. act in a threatening manner. 
MEND: 1. sewing that repairs a worn or torn hole (especially in a garment). 2. heal or recover. 
MENDEL: Augustinian monk and botanist whose experiments in breeding garden peas led to his eventual recognition as founder of the science of genetics (1822-1884)
MENDER: a skilled worker who mends or repairs things
MENHIR: a tall upright megalith; found primarily in England and northern France
MENIAL: a domestic servant
MENINX: a membrane (one of 3) that envelops the brain and spinal cord
MENSA: a faint constellation in the polar region of the southern hemisphere and containing part of the Large Magellanic Cloud
MENSAL: the dining table
MENSCH: a decent responsible person with admirable characteristics
MENTAL: 1. involving the mind or an intellectual process. 2. of or relating to the mind. 3. of or relating to the chin- or liplike structure in insects and certain mollusks. 4. affected by a disorder of the mind. 
MENTHA: mint plants
MENTOR: serve as a teacher or trusted counselor
MENTUM: 1. a projection like a chin formed by the sepals and base of the column in some orchids. 2. a projection below the mouth of certain mollusks that resembles a chin. 
MENU: 1. a list of dishes available at a restaurant. 2. the dishes making up a meal. 3. (computer science) a list of options available to a computer user. 4. an agenda of things to do. 
MENURA: type and sole genus of the family Menuridae
MEOW: cry like a cat
MERCER: 1. a dealer in textiles (especially silks). 2. British maker of printed calico cloth who invented mercerizing (1791-1866). 
MERCY: 1. something for which to be thankful. 2. alleviation of distress; showing great kindness toward the distressed. 
MERE: being nothing more than specified
MERELY: and nothing more
MERGUS: mergansers
MERIDA: the capital of the Mexican state of Yucatan
MERINO: white sheep originating in Spain and producing a heavy fleece of exceptional quality
MERIT: any admirable quality or attribute
MERLIN: (Arthurian legend) the magician who acted as King Arthur's advisor
MERLON: a solid section between two crenels in a crenelated battlement
MERLOT: 1. black wine grape originally from the region of Bordeaux. 2. dry red wine made from a grape grown widely in Bordeaux and California. 
MERMAN: 1. United States singer who appeared in several musical comedies (1909-1984). 2. half man and half fish; lives in the sea. 
MEROPS: type genus of the Meropidae
MESA: 1. flat tableland with steep edges. 2. a city in Arizona just to the east of Phoenix; originally a suburb of Phoenix. 
MESCAL: 1. a small spineless globe-shaped cactus; source of mescal buttons. 2. a colorless Mexican liquor distilled from fermented juices of certain desert plants of the genus Agavaceae (especially the century plant). 
MESH: 1. the number of openings per linear inch of a screen; measures size of particles. 2. the act of interlocking or meshing. 3. work together in harmony. 
MESHED: resembling a network
MESIAL: being in or directed toward the midline or mesial plane of the body
MESIC: having or characterized by moderate or a well-balanced supply of moisture
MESMER: Austrian physician who tried to treat diseases with a form of hypnotism (1734-1815)
MESON: an elementary particle responsible for the forces in the atomic nucleus; a hadron with a baryon number of 0
MESS: 1. eat in a mess hall. 2. soft semiliquid food. 3. a meal eaten in a mess hall by service personnel. 4. a (large) military dining room where service personnel eat or relax. 5. make a mess of or create disorder in. 
MESSY: dirty and disorderly
MESUA: genus of tropical Asiatic trees having large solitary flowers
METAL: cover with metal
METEOR: a streak of light in the sky at night that results when a meteoroid hits the earth's atmosphere and air friction causes the meteoroid to melt or vaporize or explode
METER: 1. measure with a meter. 2. stamp with a meter indicating the postage. 3. (prosody) the accent in a metrical foot of verse. 4. rhythm as given by division into parts of equal duration. 
METHYL: the univalent radical CH3- derived from methane
METHOD: a way of doing something, especially a systematic way; implies an orderly logical arrangement (usually in steps)
METIC: an alien who paid a fee to reside in an ancient Greek city
METIER: an occupation for which you are especially well suited
METIS: a person in western Canada who is of Caucasian and American Indian ancestry
METRIC: based on the meter as a standard of measurement
METRO: an electric railway operating below the surface of the ground (usually in a city)
MEUSE: 1. a European river; flows into the North Sea. 2. an American operation in World War I (1918); American troops under Pershing drove back the German armies which were saved only by the armistice on November 11. 
MEW: utter a high-pitched cry, as of seagulls
MEWS: street lined with buildings that were originally private stables but have been remodeled as dwellings
MEXICO: a republic in southern North America; became independent from Spain in 1810
MHO: a unit of conductance equal to the reciprocal of an ohm
MYA: type genus of the family Myacidae
MIAMI: 1. a member of the extinct Algonquian people formerly living in northern Indiana and southern Michigan. 2. a city and resort in southeastern Florida on Biscayne Bay; the best known city in Florida; a haven for retirees and a refuge for Cubans fleeing Castro. 
MIAOU: make a cat-like sound
MIASMA: 1. an unwholesome atmosphere. 2. unhealthy vapors rising from the ground or other sources. 
MICA: any of various minerals consisting of hydrous silicates of aluminum or potassium etc. that crystallize in forms that allow perfect cleavage into very thin leaves; used as dielectrics because of their resistance to electricity
MICAH: 1. a minor Hebrew prophet (8th century BC). 2. an Old Testament book telling the prophecies of Micah foretelling the destruction of Jerusalem. 
MICMAC: 1. a member of the Algonquian people inhabiting the Maritime Provinces of Canada. 2. the Algonquian language of the Micmac. 
MICRO: extremely small in scale or scope or capability
MICRON: a metric unit of length equal to one millionth of a meter
MID: used in combination to denote the middle
MIDAIR: some point in the air; above ground level
MIDAS: (Greek legend) the greedy king of Phrygia who Dionysus gave the power to turn everything he touched into gold
MIDDY: blouse with a sailor collar
MIDDLE: 1. an intermediate part or section. 2. of a stage in the development of a language or literature between earlier and later stages. 3. between an earlier and a later period of time. 4. put in the middle. 
MIDGE: minute two-winged mosquito-like fly lacking biting mouthparts; appear in dancing swarms especially near water
MIDI: used of women's clothing having a hemline at mid-calf
MID-ON: the fielding position in cricket closest to the bowler on the on side
MIDRIB: the vein in the center of a leaf
MIDST: the location of something surrounded by other things
MIDWAY: 1. the place at a fair or carnival where sideshows and similar amusements are located. 2. naval battle of World War II (June 1942); American planes based on land and on carriers decisively defeated a Japanese fleet on its way to invade the Midway Islands. 
MYELIC: of or relating to the spinal cord
MYELIN: a white fatty substance that forms a medullary sheath around the axis cylinder of some nerve fibers
MIFF: cause to be annoyed
MIGHT: physical strength
MIGHTY: (Southern regional intensive) very; to a great degree
MIHRAB: 1. (Islam) a design in the shape of niche in a Muslim prayer rug; during worship the niche must be pointed toward Mecca. 2. (Islam) a niche in the wall of a mosque that indicates the direction of Mecca. 
MIKADO: the emperor of Japan; when regarded as a religious leader the emperor is called tenno
MIKVAH: (Hebrew) a ritual purification and cleansing bath that Orthodox Jews take on certain occasions (as before Sabbath or after menstruation)
MIL: 1. a Cypriot monetary unit equal to one thousandth of a pound. 2. a unit of length equal to one thousandth of an inch; used to specify thickness (e.g., of sheets or wire). 3. an angular unit used in artillery; equal to 1/6400 of a complete revolution. 
MILADY: an English noblewoman
MILAN: the capital of Lombardy in northern Italy; has been an international center of trade and industry since the Middle Ages
MYLAR: a thin polyester film
MILCH: giving milk; bred or suitable primarily for milk production
MILD: moderate in type or degree or effect or force; far from extreme
MILDEW: 1. the process of becoming mildewed. 2. a fungus that produces a superficial (usually white) growth on organic matter. 
MILDLY: to a moderate degree
MILE: 1. a unit of length equal to 1,760 yards or 5,280 feet; exactly 1609.344 meters. 2. a large distance. 3. an ancient Roman unit of length equivalent to 1620 yards. 4. a Swedish unit of length equivalent to 10 km. 5. a footrace extending one mile. 
MILER: 1. (used only in combinations) the length of something in miles. 2. a runner in a one-mile race. 
MILIEU: the environmental condition
MILK: 1. take milk from female mammals. 2. exploit as much as possible. 3. add milk to. 4. any of several nutritive milklike liquids. 
MILKY: resembling milk in color not clear
MILL: 1. grind with a mill. 2. produce a ridge around the edge of. 3. roll out (metal) with a rolling machine. 4. move about in a confused manner. 
MILLED: (of grains especially rice) having the husk or outer layers removed
MILLER: 1. United States bandleader of a popular big band (1909-1944). 2. United States novelist whose novels were originally banned as pornographic (1891-1980). 3. United States playwright (1915-2005). 4. someone who works in a mill (especially a grain mill). 5. machine tool in which metal that is secured to a carriage is fed against rotating cutters that shape it. 
MILLET: 1. any of various small-grained annual cereal and forage grasses of the genera Panicum, Echinochloa, Setaria, Sorghum, and Eleusine. 2. French painter of rural scenes (1814-1875). 3. small seed of any of various annual cereal grasses especially Setaria italica. 
MILNE: English writer of stories for children (1882-1956)
MILO: small drought-resistant sorghums having large yellow or whitish grains
MILORD: a term of address for an English lord
MILT: 1. fish sperm or sperm-filled reproductive gland; having a creamy texture. 2. seminal fluid produced by male fish. 
MILTON: English poet; remembered primarily as the author of an epic poem describing humanity's fall from grace (1608-1674)
MILVUS: a genus including the common European kits
MIME: 1. an actor who communicates entirely by gesture and facial expression. 2. act out without words but with gestures and bodily movements only. 
MIMIC: constituting an imitation
MIMIR: (Norse mythology) giant who lives in the roots of Yggdrasil and guards the well of wisdom
MIMOSA: 1. any of various tropical shrubs or trees of the genus Mimosa having usually yellow flowers and compound leaves. 2. a mixed drink containing champagne and orange juice. 
MIMUS: type genus of the family Mimidae: mockingbirds
MIN: 1. any of the forms of Chinese spoken in Fukien province. 2. an Egyptian god of procreation. 
MYNA: tropical Asian starlings
MINCE: 1. make less severe or harsh. 2. walk daintily. 3. cut into small pieces. 
MINCER: a kitchen utensil that cuts or chops food (especially meat) into small pieces
MIND: 1. be offended or bothered by; take offense with, be bothered by. 2. be concerned with or about something or somebody. 3. attention. 4. keep in mind. 5. knowledge and intellectual ability. 
MINDED: (used in combination) mentally oriented toward something specified
MINDEN: a battle in the Seven Years' War (1759) in which the English forces and their allies defeated the French
MINDER: someone (usually in totalitarian countries) who is assigned to watch over foreign visitors
MINE: 1. get from the earth by excavation. 2. lay mines. 
MINED: extracted from a source of supply as of minerals from the earth
MINER: laborer who works in a mine
MING: the imperial dynasty of China from 1368 to 1644
MINGE: vulgar term for a woman's pubic hair or genitals
MINGLE: get involved or mixed-up with
MINI: used of women's clothing; very short with hemline above the knee
MINYAN: the quorum required by Jewish law to be present for public worship (at least ten males over thirteen years of age)
MINIM: 1. a British imperial capacity measure (liquid or dry) equal to 1/60th fluid dram or 0.059194 cubic centimeters. 2. a United States liquid unit equal to 1/60 fluidram. 
MINING: 1. the act of extracting ores or coal etc from the earth. 2. laying explosive mines in concealed places to destroy enemy personnel and equipment. 
MINION: a servile or fawning dependant
MINK: 1. the expensive fur of a mink. 2. fur coat made from the soft lustrous fur of minks. 3. slender-bodied semiaquatic mammal having partially webbed feet; valued for its fur. 
MINNOW: very small European freshwater fish common in gravelly streams
MINOAN: of or relating to or characteristic of the Bronze Age culture of Crete
MINOR: 1. of lesser importance or stature or rank. 2. lesser in scope or effect. 3. inferior in number or size or amount. 4. of a scale or mode. 5. not of legal age. 6. of lesser seriousness or danger. 7. of your secondary field of academic concentration or specialization. 8. of the younger of two boys with the same family name. 9. warranting only temporal punishment. 10. limited in size or scope. 
MINOS: son of Zeus and Europa; king of ancient Crete; ordered Daedalus to build the labyrinth; after death Minos became a judge in the underworld
MINSK: the capital of Belarus and of the Commonwealth of Independent States
MINT: 1. any north temperate plant of the genus Mentha with aromatic leaves and small mauve flowers. 2. any member of the mint family of plants. 3. the leaves of a mint plant used fresh or candied. 4. a candy that is flavored with a mint oil. 5. a plant where money is coined by authority of the government. 6. as if new. 
MINTY: relating to or suggestive of mint
MINUET: 1. a stately court dance in the 17th century. 2. a stately piece of music composed for dancing the minuet; often incorporated into a sonata or suite. 
MINUIT: Dutch colonist who bought Manhattan from the Native Americans for the equivalent of $24 (1580-1638)
MINUS: 1. on the negative side or lower end of a scale. 2. involving disadvantage or harm. 
MINUTE: 1. a unit of time equal to 60 seconds or 1/60th of an hour. 2. a unit of angular distance equal to a 60th of a degree. 3. a short note. 4. characterized by painstaking care and detailed examination. 
MYOID: resembling muscle
MYOMA: a benign tumor composed of muscle tissue
MYOPE: a person with myopia; a nearsighted person
MYOPIA: (ophthalmology) eyesight abnormality resulting from the eye's faulty refractive ability; distant objects appear blurred
MYOSIN: the commonest protein in muscle; a globulin that combines with actin to form actomyosin
MIOTIC: of or relating to or causing constriction of the pupil of the eye
MIPS: (computer science) a unit for measuring the execution speed of a computer's CPU (but not the whole system)
MIRAGE: 1. an optical illusion in which atmospheric refraction by a layer of hot air distorts or inverts reflections of distant objects. 2. something illusory and unattainable. 
MIRE: 1. a soft wet area of low-lying land that sinks underfoot. 2. a difficulty or embarrassment that is hard to extricate yourself from. 3. cause to get stuck as if in a mire. 4. soil with mud, muck, or mire. 
MIRI: little known Kamarupan languages
MYRIAD: a large indefinite number
MYRICA: deciduous aromatic shrubs or small trees
MIRO: 1. New Zealand conifer used for lumber; the dark wood is used for interior carpentry. 2. Spanish surrealist painter (1893-1983). 
MYRRH: aromatic resin that is burned as incense and used in perfume
MIRROR: 1. reflect as if in a mirror. 2. reflect or resemble. 
MYRTLE: 1. widely cultivated as a groundcover for its dark green shiny leaves and usually blue-violet flowers. 2. any evergreen shrub or tree of the genus Myrtus. 
MYRTUS: type genus of the Myrtaceae
MISCUE: a faulty shot in billiards; the cue tip slips off the cue ball
MISDO: do wrongly or improperly
MISER: a stingy hoarder of money and possessions (often living miserably)
MISERY: 1. a state of ill-being due to affliction or misfortune. 2. a feeling of intense unhappiness. 
MISFIT: someone unable to adapt to their circumstances
MISHAP: an instance of misfortune
MISHNA: the first part of the Talmud; a collection of early oral interpretations of the scriptures that was compiled about AD 200
MYSIS: type genus of the family Mysidae
MISO: a thick paste made from fermented soybeans and barley or rice malt; used in Japanese cooking to make soups or sauces
MYSORE: a city in southern India to the southwest of Bangalore
MISS: 1. feel or suffer from the lack of. 2. fail to attend an event or activity. 3. fail to perceive or to catch with the senses or the mind. 4. fail to reach or get to. 5. be without. 6. fail to reach. 7. be absent. 8. fail to experience. 
MISSAL: (Roman Catholic Church) a book containing all the prayers and responses needed to celebrate Mass throughout the year
MISSUS: informal term of address for someone's wife
MIST: 1. become covered with mist. 2. spray finely or cover with mist. 
MISTER: a form of address for a man
MISTY: wet with mist
MYSTIC: 1. someone who believes in the existence of realities beyond human comprehension. 2. relating to or resembling mysticism. 3. relating to or characteristic of mysticism. 
MISUSE: improper or excessive use
MITE: any of numerous very small to minute arachnids often infesting animals or plants or stored foods
MITER: 1. confer a miter on (a bishop). 2. fit together in a miter joint. 3. bevel the edges of, to make a miter joint. 
MYTH: a traditional story accepted as history; serves to explain the world view of a people
MYTHIC: relating to or having the nature of myth
MITRA: Hindu god of friendship and alliances; usually invoked together with Varuna as a supporter of heaven and earth
MITRAL: 1. of or relating to or located in or near the mitral valve. 2. relating to or resembling the miter worn by some clerics. 
MITTEN: glove that encases the thumb separately and the other four fingers together
MIX: 1. a commercially prepared mixture of dry ingredients. 2. an event that combines things in a mixture. 3. combine (electronic signals). 4. add as an additional element or part. 5. to bring or combine together or with something else. 
MIXER: 1. club soda or fruit juice used to mix with alcohol. 2. electronic equipment that mixes two or more input signals to give a single output signal. 3. a kitchen utensil that is used for mixing foods. 
MYXINE: type genus of the Myxinidae (typical hagfishes)
MYXOMA: a benign tumor of connective tissue containing jellylike material
MIZZEN: fore-and-aft sail set on the mizzenmast
MNIUM: mosses similar to those of genus Bryum but larger
MOA: extinct flightless bird of New Zealand
MOAT: ditch dug as a fortification and usually filled with water
MOATED: protected by a deep wide ditch usually filled with water
MOB: a disorderly crowd of people
MOBCAP: large high frilly cap with a full crown; formerly worn indoors by women
MOBILE: 1. migratory. 2. moving or capable of moving readily (especially from place to place). 3. having transportation available. 4. capable of changing quickly from one state or condition to another. 
MOBIUS: German mathematician responsible for the Mobius strip (1790-1868)
MOBULA: type genus of the Mobulidae
MOCHA: 1. soft suede glove leather from goatskin. 2. a flavoring made from coffee mixed with chocolate. 3. a superior dark coffee made from beans from Arabia. 4. a dark brown color. 
MOCK: 1. constituting a copy or imitation of something. 2. imitate with mockery and derision. 
MOD: relating to a recently developed fashion or style; 
MODAL: 1. relating to or constituting the most frequent value in a distribution. 2. of or relating to a musical mode; especially written in an ecclesiastical mode. 3. relating to or expressing the mood of a verb. 
MODE: 1. a particular functioning condition or arrangement. 2. any of various fixed orders of the various diatonic notes within an octave. 3. the most frequent value of a random variable. 
MODEL: 1. plan or create according to a model or models. 2. form in clay, wax, etc. 3. assume a posture as for artistic purposes. 4. display (clothes) as a mannequin. 5. construct a model of. 6. a representative form or pattern. 7. the act of representing something (usually on a smaller scale). 8. create a representation or model of. 
MODEM: (from a combination of MOdulate and DEModulate) electronic equipment consisting of a device used to connect computers by a telephone line
MODERN: 1. belonging to the modern era; since the Middle Ages. 2. a typeface (based on an 18th century design by Gianbattista Bodoni) distinguished by regular shape and hairline serifs and heavy downstrokes. 3. characteristic of present-day art and music and literature and architecture. 4. used of a living language; being the current stage in its development. 
MODEST: 1. marked by simplicity; having a humble opinion of yourself. 2. not large but sufficient in size or amount. 3. free from pomp or affectation. 4. not offensive to sexual mores in conduct or appearance. 
MODIFY: 1. make less severe or harsh or extreme. 2. add a modifier to a constituent. 
MODS: a youth subculture that began in London in the early 1960s; a working-class movement with highly stylized dress and short hair; listened to rhythm and blues music and travelled on motor scooters
MODULE: 1. detachable compartment of a spacecraft. 2. computer circuit consisting of an assembly of electronic components (as of computer hardware). 3. a self-contained component (unit or item) that is used in combination with other components. 
MOGUL: 1. a bump on a ski slope. 2. a member of the Muslim dynasty that ruled India until 1857. 
MOHAIR: fabric made with yarn made from the silky hair of the Angora goat
MOHAVE: 1. a member of the North American Indian people formerly living in the Colorado river valley in Arizona and Nevada and California. 2. the Yuman language spoken by the Mohave. 
MOHAWK: 1. a member of the Iroquoian people formerly living along the Mohawk River in New York State. 2. the Iroquoian language spoken by the Mohawk. 3. haircut in which the head is shaved except for a band of hair down the middle of the scalp. 
MOIETY: 1. one of two (approximately) equal parts. 2. one of two basic subdivisions of a tribe. 
MOIL: moisten or soil
MOIRE: (of silk fabric) having a wavelike pattern
MOJAVE: a desert area in southern California and western Arizona
MOJO: a magic power or magic spell
MOKE: British informal for donkey
MOLAL: designating a solution containing one mole of solute per kilogram of solvent
MOLAR: 1. of or pertaining to the grinding teeth in the back of a mammal's mouth. 2. designating a solution containing one mole of solute per liter of solution. 3. containing one mole of a substance. 4. pertaining to large units of behavior. 
MOLD: 1. become moldy; spoil due to humidity. 2. loose soil rich in organic matter. 3. fit tightly, follow the contours of. 4. a dish or dessert that is formed in or on a mold. 5. a distinctive nature, character, or type. 6. sculpture produced by molding. 
MOLDY: covered with or smelling of mold
MOLE: 1. spicy sauce often containing chocolate. 2. a small congenital pigmented spot on the skin. 3. small velvety-furred burrowing mammal having small eyes and fossorial forefeet. 
MOLEST: harass or assault sexually; make indecent advances to
MOLINE: a town in northwest Illinois on the Mississippi River
MOLISE: a region of south central Italy
MOLL: the girlfriend of a gangster
MOLLIE: popular aquarium fish
MOLOCH: 1. a tyrannical power to be propitiated by human subservience or sacrifice. 2. god of the Canaanites and Phoenicians to whom parents sacrificed their children. 3. any lizard of the genus Moloch. 
MOLT: periodic shedding of the cuticle in arthropods or the outer skin in reptiles
MOLTEN: reduced to liquid form by heating
MOLTER: an animal (especially birds and arthropods and reptiles) that periodically shed their outer layer (feathers or cuticle or skin or hair)
MOLTO: much
MOMBIN: 1. common tropical American shrub or small tree with purplish fruit. 2. purplish tropical fruit. 
MOMENT: 1. a particular point in time. 2. an indefinitely short time. 3. a turning force produced by an object acting at a distance (or a measure of that force). 4. the n-th moment of a distribution is the expected value of the n-th power of the deviations from a fixed value. 
MOMISM: excessive protection
MOMUS: god of blame and mockery
MON: 1. a member of a Buddhist people living in Myanmar and adjacent parts of Thailand. 2. the Mon-Khmer language spoken by the Mon. 
MONACO: a constitutional monarchy in a tiny enclave on the French Riviera
MONAD: 1. (chemistry) an atom having a valence of one. 2. a singular metaphysical entity from which material properties are said to derive. 3. (biology) a single-celled microorganism (especially a flagellate protozoan). 
MONAL: brilliantly colored pheasant of southern Asia
MONDAY: the second day of the week; the first working day
MONEY: 1. the most common medium of exchange; functions as legal tender. 2. wealth reckoned in terms of money. 3. the official currency issued by a government or national bank. 
MONERA: prokaryotic bacteria and blue-green algae and various primitive pathogens; because of lack of consensus on how to divide the organisms into phyla informal names are used for the major divisions
MONET: French impressionist painter (1840-1926)
MONGO: 100 mongo equal 1 tugrik in Mongolia
MONGOL: of or relating to the region of Mongolia or its people or their languages or cultures
MONISM: the doctrine that reality consists of a single basic substance or element
MONK: 1. a male religious living in a cloister and devoting himself to contemplation and prayer and work. 2. United States jazz pianist who was one of the founders of the bebop style (1917-1982). 
MONKEY: any of various long-tailed primates (excluding the prosimians)
MONNET: French economist who advocated a Common Market in Europe (1888-1979)
MONO: designating sound transmission or recording or reproduction over a single channel
MONS: a mound of fatty tissue covering the pubic area in women
MONTE: a gambling card game of Spanish origin; 3 or 4 cards are dealt face up and players bet that one of them will be matched before the others as the cards are dealt from the pack one at a time
MONTH: a time unit of approximately 30 days
MONTIA: small genus of densely tufted annual herbs; north temperate regions and South America and tropical Africa and Asia
MOOCH: ask for and get free; be a parasite
MOOD: verb inflections that express how the action or state is conceived by the speaker
MOON: 1. the natural satellite of the Earth. 2. be idle in a listless or dreamy way. 3. United States religious leader (born in Korea) who founded the Unification Church in 1954; was found guilty of conspiracy to evade taxes (born in 1920). 4. any natural satellite of a planet. 5. expose one's buttocks to. 
MOONIE: an often derogatory term for a member of the Unification Church
MOOR: 1. secure in or as if in a berth or dock. 2. come into or dock at a wharf. 3. secure with cables or ropes. 
MOOT: of no legal significance (as having been previously decided)
MOPE: 1. move around slowly and aimlessly. 2. be apathetic, gloomy, or dazed. 
MOPED: a motorbike that can be pedaled or driven by a low-powered gasoline engine
MOPPER: a worker who uses a mop to clean a surface
MOPPET: a little girl (usually one you are fond of)
MORAY: family of brightly colored voracious eels of warm coastal waters; generally nonaggressive to humans but larger species are dangerous if provoked
MORAL: 1. concerned with principles of right and wrong or conforming to standards of behavior and character based on those principles. 2. psychological rather than physical or tangible in effect. 
MORALE: a state of individual psychological well-being based upon a sense of confidence and usefulness and purpose
MORBID: suggesting an unhealthy mental state
MORDVA: 1. a member of the agricultural people living in the central Volga provinces of European Russia. 2. the Finnic language spoken by the Mordvinians. 
MORE: 1. used to form the comparative of some adjectives and adverbs. 2. comparative of much; to a greater degree or extent. 
MOREEN: a heavy fabric of wool (or wool and cotton) used mostly in upholstery or for curtains
MOREL: any of various edible mushrooms of the genus Morchella having a brownish spongelike cap
MORES: (sociology) the conventions that embody the fundamental values of a group
MORGEN: a South African unit of measure equal to about 2 acres
MORGUE: a building (or room) where dead bodies are kept before burial or cremation
MORION: a metal helmet worn by common soldiers in the 16th century
MORMON: of or pertaining to or characteristic of the Mormon Church
MORO: a member of the predominantly Muslim people in the southern Philippines
MORON: a city in Argentina, to the west of Buenos Aires
MORONE: carnivorous fresh and salt water fishes
MORPH: 1. cause to change shape in a computer animation. 2. change shape as via computer animation. 
MORROW: the next day
MORS: (Roman mythology) Roman god of death; counterpart of Thanatos
MORSEL: 1. a small quantity of anything. 2. a small amount of solid food; a mouthful. 
MORTAL: 1. subject to death. 2. unrelenting and deadly. 
MORTAR: 1. plaster with mortar. 2. used as a bond in masonry or for covering a wall. 3. a bowl-shaped vessel in which substances can be ground and mixed with a pestle. 
MORULA: a solid mass of blastomeres that forms when the zygote splits; develops into the blastula
MORUS: type genus of the Moraceae: mulberries
MOSAIC: 1. of or relating to Moses or the laws and writings attributed to him. 2. viral disease in solanaceous plants (tomatoes, potatoes, tobacco) resulting in mottling and often shriveling of the leaves. 3. a freeware browser. 4. a pattern resembling a mosaic. 5. transducer formed by the light-sensitive surface on a television camera tube. 6. arrangement of aerial photographs forming a composite picture. 
MOSAN: a family of Amerindian languages spoken in Washington and British Columbia
MOSCOW: a city of central European Russia; formerly capital of both the Soviet Union and Soviet Russia; since 1991 the capital of the Russian Federation
MOSES: 1. (Old Testament) the Hebrew prophet who led the Israelites from Egypt across the Red sea on a journey known as the Exodus; Moses received the Ten Commandments from God on Mount Sinai. 2. United States painter of colorful and primitive rural scenes (1860-1961). 
MOSHAV: a cooperative Israeli village or settlement comprised of small farms
MOSQUE: (Islam) a Muslim place of worship that usually has a minaret
MOSS: tiny leafy-stemmed flowerless plants
MOST: 1. used to form the superlative. 2. very. 
MOSUL: a city in northern Iraq on the Tigris across from the ruins of Nineveh
MOT: a compulsory annual test of older motor vehicles for safety and exhaust fumes
MOTEL: a motor hotel
MOTET: an unaccompanied choral composition with sacred lyrics; intended to be sung as part of a church service; originated in the 13th century
MOTH: typically crepuscular or nocturnal insect having a stout body and feathery or hairlike antennae
MOTHER: 1. care for like a mother. 2. a stringy slimy substance consisting of yeast cells and bacteria; forms during fermentation and is added to cider or wine to produce vinegar. 3. a term of address for an elderly woman. 4. a term of address for a mother superior. 5. a condition that is the inspiration for an activity or situation. 
MOTHY: infested with moths
MOTIF: 1. a design or figure that consists of recurring shapes or colors, as in architecture or decoration. 2. a theme that is repeated or elaborated in a piece of music. 
MOTILE: (of spores or microorganisms) capable of movement
MOTION: 1. a change of position that does not entail a change of location. 2. a state of change. 3. a formal proposal for action made to a deliberative assembly for discussion and vote. 4. the act of changing location from one place to another. 
MOTIVE: causing or able to cause motion
MOTLEY: 1. having sections or patches colored differently and usually brightly. 2. a multicolored woolen fabric woven of mixed threads in 14th to 17th century England. 
MOTMOT: tropical American bird resembling a blue jay and having greenish and bluish plumage
MOTOR: 1. machine that converts other forms of energy into mechanical energy and so imparts motion. 2. a nonspecific agent that imparts motion. 
MOTTLE: 1. mark with spots or blotches of different color or shades of color as if stained. 2. colour with streaks or blotches of different shades. 
MOTTO: a favorite saying of a sect or political group
MOUND: 1. form into a rounded elevation. 2. structure consisting of an artificial heap or bank usually of earth or stones. 
MOUNT: 1. put up or launch. 2. attach to a support. 3. fix onto a backing, setting, or support. 4. prepare and supply with the necessary equipment for execution or performance. 
MOURN: 1. feel sadness. 2. observe the customs of mourning after the death of a loved one. 
MOUSE: 1. any of numerous small rodents typically resembling diminutive rats having pointed snouts and small ears on elongated bodies with slender usually hairless tails. 2. person who is quiet or timid. 3. a hand-operated electronic device that controls the coordinates of a cursor on your computer screen as you move it around on a pad; on the bottom of the device is a ball that rolls on the surface of the pad. 4. manipulate the mouse of a computer. 
MOUSER: a cat proficient at mousing
MOUSY: 1. quiet and timid and ineffectual. 2. infested with mice. 3. of something having a drab pale brown color resembling a mouse. 
MOUSSE: 1. apply a styling gel to. 2. a light creamy dish made from fish or meat and set with gelatin. 3. toiletry consisting of an aerosol foam used in hair styling. 
MOUTH: 1. the opening through which food is taken in and vocalizations emerge. 2. articulate silently; form words with the lips only. 3. touch with the mouth. 4. the point where a stream issues into a larger body of water. 5. a person conceived as a consumer of food. 6. the opening of a jar or bottle. 
MOUTON: meat from a mature domestic sheep
MOVE: 1. the act of deciding to do something. 2. cause to move or shift into a new position or place, both in a concrete and in an abstract sense. 3. (game) a player's turn to take some action permitted by the rules of the game. 4. move so as to change position, perform a nontranslational motion. 5. change residence, affiliation, or place of employment. 6. go or proceed from one point to another. 7. arouse sympathy or compassion in. 8. dispose of by selling. 9. progress by being changed. 10. live one's life in a specified environment. 11. have a turn; make one's move in a game. 12. propose formally; in a debate or parliamentary meeting. 
MOVED: being excited or provoked to the expression of an emotion
MOVER: 1. workman employed by a moving company. 2. someone who moves. 3. a company that moves the possessions of a family or business from one site to another. 
MOVIE: a form of entertainment that enacts a story by sound and a sequence of images giving the illusion of continuous movement
MOVING: 1. in motion. 2. arousing or capable of arousing deep emotion. 3. used of a series of photographs presented so as to create the illusion of motion. 
MOW: cut with a blade or mower
MOWN: (used of grass or vegetation) cut down with a hand implement or machine
MOZART: 1. prolific Austrian composer and child prodigy; master of the classical style in all its forms of his time (1756-1791). 2. the music of Mozart. 
MRS: a form of address for a married woman
MS: a form of address for a woman
MUCH: 1. to a great degree or extent. 2. very. 3. (degree adverb used before a noun phrase) for all practical purposes but not completely. 4. frequently or in great quantities. 
MUCIN: a nitrogenous substance found in mucous secretions; a lubricant that protects body surfaces
MUCK: remove muck, clear away muck, as in a mine
MUCKY: dirty and messy; covered with mud or muck
MUCOID: relating to or resembling mucus
MUCOR: any mold of the genus Mucor
MUCOUS: of or secreting or covered with or resembling mucus
MUCUNA: any of several erect or climbing woody plants of the genus Mucuna; widespread in tropics of both hemispheres
MUCUS: protective secretion of the mucus membranes; in the gut it lubricates the passage of food and protects the epithelial cells; in the nose and throat and lungs it can make it difficult for bacteria to penetrate the body through the epithelium
MUD: 1. water soaked soil; soft wet earth. 2. plaster with mud. 
MUDDER: a racehorse that runs well on a muddy racetrack
MUDDY: 1. dirty with mud. 2. cause to become muddy. 3. make turbid. 
MUDDLE: make into a puddle
MUDRA: ritual hand movement in Hindu religious dancing
MUESLI: mixture of untoasted dry cereals and fruits
MUFF: fail to catch, as of a ball
MUFFIN: a sweet quick bread baked in a cup-shaped pan
MUFFLE: 1. a kiln with an inner chamber for firing things at a low temperature. 2. deaden (a sound or noise), especially by wrapping. 
MUFTI: 1. a jurist who interprets Muslim religious law. 2. civilian dress worn by a person who is entitled to wear a military uniform. 
MUG: 1. rob at gunpoint or with the threat of violence. 2. with handle and usually cylindrical. 
MUGGEE: a victim of a mugging
MUGGER: a robber who takes property by threatening or performing violence on the person who is robbed (usually on the street)
MUGGY: hot or warm and humid
MUGIL: type genus of the Mugilidae: mullets
MULCH: cover with mulch
MULCT: impose a fine on
MULE: 1. hybrid offspring of a male donkey and a female horse; usually sterile. 2. a slipper that has no fitting around the heel. 
MULL: 1. a term used in Scottish names of promontories. 2. heat with sugar and spices to make a hot drink. 
MULLAH: a Muslim trained in the doctrine and law of Islam; the head of a mosque
MULLET: 1. highly valued lean flesh of marine or freshwater mullet. 2. freshwater or coastal food fishes a spindle-shaped body; found worldwide. 3. bottom dwelling marine warm water fishes with two barbels on the chin. 
MUM: 1. secrecy. 2. failing to speak or communicate etc when expected to. 
MUMBLE: 1. talk indistinctly; usually in a low voice. 2. grind with the gums; chew without teeth and with great difficulty. 
MUMMY: a body embalmed and dried and wrapped for burial (as in ancient Egypt)
MUMPS: an acute contagious viral disease characterized by fever and by swelling of the parotid glands
MUNCH: 1. Norwegian painter (1863-1944). 2. a large bite. 
MUNCIE: a town in east central Indiana
MUNDA: a family of languages spoken by people scattered throughout central India
MUNG: erect bushy annual widely cultivated in warm regions of India and Indonesia and United States for forage and especially its edible seeds; chief source of bean sprouts used in Chinese cookery; sometimes placed in genus Phaseolus
MUNICH: the capital and largest city of Bavaria in southwestern Germany
MUNJ: tough Asiatic grass whose culms are used for ropes and baskets
MUNRO: British writer of short stories (1870-1916)
MUON: an elementary particle with a negative charge and a half-life of 2 microsecond; decays to electron and neutrino and antineutrino
MURAL: of or relating to walls
MURDER: kill intentionally and with premeditation
MURINE: of or relating to or transmitted by a member of the family Muridae (rats and mice)
MURK: make dark, dim, or gloomy
MURKY: dark or gloomy
MURMUR: 1. speak softly or indistinctly. 2. make complaining remarks or noises under one's breath. 
MURRAY: 1. British classical scholar (born in Australia) who advocated the League of Nations and the United Nations (1866-1957). 2. Scottish philologist and the lexicographer who shaped the Oxford English Dictionary (1837-1915). 3. a southeast Australian river; flows westward and then south into the Indian Ocean at Adelaide. 
MURRE: black-and-white diving bird of northern seas
MUS: type genus of the Muridae: common house mice; the tips of the upper incisors have a square notch
MUSA: type genus of the Musaceae: bananas
MUSCA: 1. a small constellation in the polar region of the southern hemisphere near the Southern Cross and Chamaeleon. 2. type genus of the Muscidae: houseflies. 
MUSCAT: 1. any of several cultivated grapevines that produce sweet white grapes. 2. a port on the Gulf of Oman and capital of the sultanate of Oman. 3. wine from muscat grapes. 4. sweet aromatic grape used for raisins and wine. 
MUSCLE: 1. make one's way by force. 2. animal tissue consisting predominantly of contractile cells. 3. authority or power or force (especially when used in a coercive way). 
MUSE: 1. in ancient Greek mythology any of 9 daughters of Zeus and Mnemosyne; protector of an art or science. 2. the source of an artist's inspiration. 
MUSER: a reflective thinker characterized by quiet contemplation
MUSEUM: a depository for collecting and displaying objects having scientific or historical or artistic value
MUSGU: a Chadic language spoken south of Lake Chad
MUSH: 1. cornmeal boiled in water. 2. a journey by dogsled. 3. drive (a team of dogs or a dogsled). 
MUSHER: a traveler who drives (or travels with) a dog team
MUSHY: having the consistency of mush
MUSIC: 1. an artistic form of auditory communication incorporating instrumental or vocal tones in a structured and continuous manner. 2. any agreeable (pleasing and harmonious) sounds. 3. musical activity (singing or whistling etc.). 4. (music) the sounds produced by singers or musical instruments (or reproductions of such sounds). 5. punishment for one's actions. 
MUSK: 1. an odorous glandular secretion from the male musk deer; used as a perfume fixative. 2. the scent of a greasy glandular secretion from the male musk deer. 
MUSKET: a muzzle-loading shoulder gun with a long barrel; formerly used by infantrymen
MUSKY: resembling the smell of musk
MUSLIM: of or relating to or supporting Islamism
MUSLIN: plain-woven cotton fabric
MUSNUD: a seat with a cushion that is used as a throne by Indian princes
MUSS: make messy or untidy
MUSSEL: 1. black marine bivalves usually steamed in wine. 2. marine or freshwater bivalve mollusk that lives attached to rocks etc.. 
MUSSET: French poet and writer (1810-1857)
MUST: 1. highly recommended. 2. grape juice before or during fermentation. 
MUSTER: 1. gather or bring together. 2. call to duty, military service, jury duty, etc.. 
MUSTH: an annual phase of heightened sexual excitement in the males of certain large mammals (especially elephants); is associated with discharge from a gland between the eye and ear
MUTANT: 1. tending to undergo or resulting from mutation. 2. an animal that has undergone mutation. 
MUTATE: undergo mutation
MUTE: 1. expressed without speech. 2. a device used to soften the tone of a musical instrument. 
MUTELY: without speaking
MUTINY: engage in a mutiny against an authority
MUTISM: the condition of being unable or unwilling to speak
MUTON: the smallest unit of DNA where a mutation can occur
MUTTER: a low continuous indistinct sound; often accompanied by movement of the lips without the production of articulate speech
MUZHIK: a Russian peasant (especially prior to 1917)
MUZZLE: 1. forward projecting part of the head of certain animals; includes the jaws and nose. 2. a leather or wire restraint that fits over an animal's snout (especially a dog's nose and jaws) and prevents it from eating or biting. 3. fit with a muzzle. 
MWANZA: a city in northern Tanzania on Lake Victoria
NAB: 1. tag the base runner to get him out. 2. seize suddenly. 
NABLUS: an ancient city in the West Bank to the north of Jerusalem; the home of Jacob in biblical times
NABOB: a wealthy man (especially one who made his fortune in the Orient)
NABU: Babylonian god of wisdom and agriculture and patron of scribes and schools
NACHO: a tortilla chip topped with cheese and chili-pepper and broiled
NADIR: 1. an extreme state of adversity; the lowest point of anything. 2. the point below the observer that is directly opposite the zenith on the imaginary sphere against which celestial bodies appear to be projected. 
NAG: 1. bother persistently with trivial complaints. 2. worry persistently. 3. remind or urge constantly. 
NAGA: Kamarupan languages spoken in northeastern India and western Burma
NAGAMI: shrub bearing oval-fruited kumquats
NAGANO: a city in central Honshu to the northwest of Tokyo; site of a Buddhist shrine
NAGOYA: an industrial city in southern Honshu
NAHUM: 1. a Hebrew minor prophet of the 7th century BC. 2. an Old Testament book telling Nahum's prophecy of the fall of Nineveh. 
NAY: not this merely but also; not only so but
NAIAD: 1. submerged aquatic plant having narrow leaves and small flowers; of fresh or brackish water. 2. (Greek mythology) a nymph of lakes and springs and rivers and fountains. 
NAIANT: applied to a fish depicted horizontally
NAIAS: sole genus of the family Naiadaceae
NAIF: a naive or inexperienced person
NAIL: 1. attach something somewhere by means of nails. 2. a thin pointed piece of metal that is hammered into materials as a fastener. 3. a former unit of length for cloth equal to 1/16 of a yard. 
NAILER: a worker who attaches something by nailing it
NAIRA: the basic unit of money in Nigeria
NAIVE: 1. marked by or showing unaffected simplicity and lack of guile or worldly experience. 2. inexperienced. 
NAJA: cobras
NAKED: 1. having no protecting or concealing cover. 2. (of the eye or ear e.g.) without the aid of an optical or acoustical device or instrument. 3. devoid of elaboration or diminution or concealment; bare and pure. 4. lacking any cover. 
NAKURU: a city in western Kenya; commercial center of an agricultural region
NAME: 1. assign a specified (usually proper) proper name to. 2. give the name or identifying characteristics of; refer to by name or some other identifying characteristic property. 3. charge with a function; charge to be. 4. a well-known or notable person. 5. mention and identify by name. 6. a defamatory or abusive word or phrase. 
NAMELY: as follows
NAMER: a person who gives a name or names
NAMING: the verbal act of naming
NAMUR: a city in south central Belgium situated on a promontory between the Meuse River and the Sambre River; the site of intense fighting in World War I and World War II
NAN: 1. your grandmother. 2. a river of western Thailand flowing southward to join the Ping River to form the Chao Phraya. 3. leavened bread baked in a clay oven in India; usually shaped like a teardrop. 
NANAK: Indian religious leader who founded Sikhism in dissent from the caste system of Hinduism; he taught that all men had a right to search for knowledge of God and that spiritual liberation could be attained by meditating on the name of God (1469-1538)
NANCY: a city in northeastern France in Lorraine
NANNA: 1. (Norse mythology) wife of Balder. 2. god of the Moon; counterpart of the Akkadian Sin. 
NANNY: 1. a woman who is the custodian of children. 2. female goat. 
NANSEN: Norwegian explorer of the Arctic and director of the League of Nations relief program for refugees of World War I (1861-1930)
NANTES: a port city in western France on the Loire estuary
NANTUA: white sauce with whipping cream and shrimp butter
NAOMI: the mother-in-law of Ruth whose story is told in the Book of Ruth in the Old Testament
NAP: 1. a soft or fuzzy surface texture. 2. sleeping for a short period of time (usually not in bed). 3. take a siesta. 
NAPAEA: one species: glade mallow
NAPALM: gasoline jelled with aluminum soaps; highly incendiary liquid used in fire bombs and flamethrowers
NAPE: the back side of the neck
NAPIER: Scottish mathematician who invented logarithms; introduced the use of the decimal point in writing numbers (1550-1617)
NAPKIN: a small piece of table linen that is used to wipe the mouth and to cover the lap in order to protect clothing
NAPLES: a port and tourist center in southwestern Italy; capital of the Campania region
NAPU: chevrotain somewhat larger than the kanchil; found in India and Malaya
NARC: a lawman concerned with narcotics violations
NARD: an aromatic ointment used in antiquity
NARDOO: Australian clover fern
NARY: (used with singular count nouns) colloquial for `not a' or `not one' or `never a'
NARIAL: of or relating to or near the nares
NARIS: any of the openings to the nasal cavities that allow air to flow through the cavities to the pharynx
NARK: 1. an informer or spy working for the police. 2. inform or spy (for the police). 
NARROW: 1. not wide. 2. limited in size or scope. 3. very limited in degree. 
NASAL: an elongated rectangular bone that forms the bridge of the nose
NASEBY: 1. a village in western Northamptonshire. 2. a battle in 1645 that settled the outcome of the first English Civil War as the Parliamentarians won a major victory over the Royalists. 
NASION: the craniometric point at the bridge of the nose where the frontal and nasal bones of the skull meet
NASSAU: the capital of the Bahamas
NASSER: Egyptian statesman who nationalized the Suez Canal (1918-1970)
NASTY: 1. offensive or even (of persons) malicious. 2. exasperatingly difficult to handle or circumvent. 
NASUA: coatis
NATAL: 1. relating to or accompanying birth. 2. of or relating to the buttocks. 
NATION: 1. the people who live in a nation or country. 2. United States prohibitionist who raided saloons and destroyed bottles of liquor with a hatchet (1846-1911). 3. a federation of tribes (especially Native American tribes). 
NATIVE: 1. characteristic of or existing by virtue of geographic origin. 2. belonging to one by birth. 3. characteristic of or relating to people inhabiting a region from the beginning. 4. as found in nature in the elemental form. 
NATRIX: water snakes; a cosmopolitan genus
NATTA: Italian chemist noted for work on polymers (1903-1979)
NATURE: 1. the essential qualities or characteristics by which something is recognized. 2. a causal agent creating and controlling things in the universe. 3. the natural physical world including plants and animals and landscapes etc.. 4. the complex of emotional and intellectual attributes that determine a person's characteristic actions and reactions. 5. a particular type of thing. 
NAUGHT: complete failure
NAURU: 1. an island republic on Nauru Island; phosphate exports support the economy. 2. a small island in the central Pacific Ocean 2,800 miles to the southwest of Hawaii; in Micronesia to the west of the Gilbert Islands. 
NAUSEA: 1. the state that precedes vomiting. 2. disgust so strong it makes you feel sick. 
NAUTCH: an intricate traditional dance in India performed by professional dancing girls
NAVAHO: 1. a member of an Athapaskan people that migrated to Arizona and New Mexico and Utah. 2. the Athapaskan language spoken by the Navaho. 
NAVAL: connected with or belonging to or used in a navy
NAVE: the central area of a church
NAVEL: 1. a scar where the umbilical cord was attached. 2. the center point or middle of something. 
NAVY: an organization of military vessels belonging to a country and available for sea warfare
NAWAB: a governor in India during the Mogul empire
NAZI: 1. relating to or consistent with or typical of the ideology and practice of Nazism or the Nazis. 2. derogatory term for a person who is fanatically dedicated to, or seeks to control, some activity, practice, etc.. 
NAZIFY: cause or force to adopt Nazism or a Nazi character
NAZISM: a form of socialism featuring racism and expansionism and obedience to a strong leader
NEAR: 1. near in time or place or relationship. 2. being on the left side. 3. closely resembling the genuine article. 
NEARBY: not far away in relative terms
NEARER: (comparative of `near' or `close') within a shorter distance
NEAT: 1. clean or organized. 2. showing care in execution. 3. free from what is tawdry or unbecoming. 4. without water. 
NEATLY: with neatness
NEBULA: 1. a medicinal liquid preparation intended for use in an atomizer. 2. cloudiness of the urine. 3. an immense cloud of gas (mainly hydrogen) and dust in interstellar space. 4. (pathology) a faint cloudy spot on the cornea. 
NEBULE: a small cloud
NECK: 1. kiss, embrace, or fondle with sexual passion. 2. a narrow elongated projecting strip of land. 3. a cut of meat from the neck of an animal. 4. a narrow part of an artifact that resembles a neck in position or form. 5. an opening in a garment for the neck of the wearer; a part of the garment near the wearer's neck. 
NECKAR: a river in Germany; rises in the Black Forest and flows north into the Rhine
NECKED: having a neck or having a neck especially as specified (often used in combination)
NECKER: a lover who necks
NECTAR: 1. a sweet liquid secretion that is attractive to pollinators. 2. fruit juice especially when undiluted. 
NEE: (meaning literally `born') used to indicate the maiden or family name of a married woman
NEED: 1. a condition requiring relief. 2. anything that is necessary but lacking. 3. have or feel a need for. 
NEEDED: necessary for relief or supply
NEEDY: 1. needy people collectively. 2. demanding or needing attention, affection, or reassurance to an excessive degree. 
NEEDLE: 1. prick with a needle. 2. a sharp pointed implement (usually steel). 3. goad or provoke,as by constant criticism. 
NEEL: French physicist noted for research on magnetism (born in 1904)
NEEM: large semi-evergreen tree of the East Indies; trunk exudes a tenacious gum; bitter bark used as a tonic; seeds yield an aromatic oil; sometimes placed in genus Melia
NEGATE: prove negative; show to be false
NEGEV: a desert in southern Israel
NEGRO: relating to or characteristic of or being a member of the traditional racial division of mankind having brown to black pigmentation and tightly curled hair
NEGUS: wine and hot water with sugar and lemon juice and nutmeg
NEHRU: Indian statesman and leader with Gandhi in the struggle for home rule; was the first prime minister of the Republic of India from 1947 to 1964 (1889-1964)
NEY: French marshal in the Napoleonic Wars (1769-1815)
NEIGH: make a characteristic sound, of a horse
NEJD: a central plateau region of the Arabian Peninsula; formerly an independent sultanate until 1932 when it united with Hejaz to form the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
NEKTON: the aggregate of actively swimming animals in a body of water ranging from microscopic organisms to whales
NELSON: 1. English admiral who defeated the French fleets of Napoleon but was mortally wounded at Trafalgar (1758-1805). 2. any of several wrestling holds in which an arm is passed under the opponent's arm from behind and the hand exerts pressure on the back of the neck. 
NEMEA: a valley in southeastern Greece where the Nemean Games were held
NEO: (used as a combining form) recent or new
NEON: a colorless odorless gaseous element that give a red glow in a vacuum tube; one of the six inert gasses; occurs in the air in small amounts
NEOSHO: a river that rises in eastern Kansas and flows eastward into Oklahoma to become a tributary of the Arkansas River
NEPA: type genus of the Nepidae: typical elongate-oval water scorpions
NEPAL: a small landlocked Asian country high in the Himalayas between India and China
NEPALI: the official state language of Nepal
NEPETA: catmint
NEPHEW: a son of your brother or sister
NERD: an intelligent but single-minded expert in a particular technical field or profession
NEREID: (Greek mythology) any of the 50 sea nymphs who were daughters of the sea god Nereus
NEREUS: (Greek mythology) a sea god son of Pontus and Gaea; lived in the depths of the sea with his wife Doris and their daughters the Nereids
NERGAL: (Akkadian) god ruling with his consort Ereshkigal the world of the dead
NERITA: a neritid gastropod having a short smooth or spirally ridged shell with thick usually toothed outer lip and toothed operculum
NERIUM: one species: oleander
NERNST: German physicist and chemist who formulated the third law of thermodynamics (1864-1941)
NERO: Roman Emperor notorious for his monstrous vice and fantastic luxury (was said to have started a fire that destroyed much of Rome in 64) but the Roman Empire remained prosperous during his rule (37-68)
NERUDA: Chilean poet (1904-1973)
NERVA: Emperor of Rome who introduced a degree of freedom after the repressive reign of Domitian; adopted Trajan as his successor (30-98)
NERVE: any bundle of nerve fibers running to various organs and tissues of the body
NERVES: control of your emotions
NERVY: showing or requiring courage and contempt of danger
NEST: 1. inhabit a nest, usually after building. 2. fit together or fit inside. 3. a cosy or secluded retreat. 4. gather nests. 5. furniture pieces made to fit close together. 
NESTER: a bird that has built (or is building) a nest
NESTLE: 1. lie in a sheltered position. 2. position comfortably. 
NESTOR: 1. (Greek mythology) a wise old counselor to the Greeks at Troy. 2. a genus of Psittacidae. 
NET: 1. yield as a net profit. 2. catch with a net. 3. game equipment consisting of a strip of netting dividing the playing area in tennis or badminton. 4. an open fabric of string or rope or wire woven together at regular intervals. 5. remaining after all deductions. 
NETHER: 1. lower. 2. located below or beneath something else. 
NETTLE: sting with or as with nettles and cause a stinging pain or sensation
NEURAL: of or relating to neurons
NEUTER: 1. of grammatical gender. 2. having no or imperfectly developed or nonfunctional sex organs. 
NEVA: a river in northwestern Russia flowing generally west into the Gulf of Finland
NEVADA: a state in the southwestern United States
NEVE: the upper part of a glacier (beyond the limit of perpetual snow) where the snow turns to ice
NEVER: 1. not ever; at no time in the past or future. 2. not at all; certainly not; not in any circumstances. 
NEVIS: one of the islands of Saint Christopher-Nevis
NEW: 1. not of long duration; having just (or relatively recently) come into being or been made or acquired or discovered. 2. having no previous example or precedent or parallel. 3. other than the former one(s); different. 4. unaffected by use or exposure. 5. in use after medieval times. 6. (of crops) harvested at an early stage of development; before complete maturity. 7. unfamiliar. 
NEWARI: Himalayish language spoken in the Kathmandu valley of Nepal
NEWARK: the largest city in New Jersey; located in northeastern New Jersey
NEWEL: the central pillar of a circular staircase
NEWLY: very recently
NEWS: 1. information about recent and important events. 2. information reported in a newspaper or news magazine. 3. informal information of any kind that is not previously known to someone. 
NEWSY: full of news
NEWT: small usually bright-colored semiaquatic salamanders of North America and Europe and northern Asia
NEWTON: 1. English mathematician and physicist; remembered for developing the calculus and for his law of gravitation and his three laws of motion (1642-1727). 2. a unit of force equal to the force that imparts an acceleration of 1 m/sec/sec to a mass of 1 kilogram; equal to 100,000 dynes. 
NEXT: at the time or occasion immediately following
NEXUS: a connected series or group
NGUNI: a group of southern Bantu languages
NGWEE: 100 ngwee equal 1 kwacha in Zambia
NIACIN: a B vitamin essential for the normal function of the nervous system and the gastrointestinal tract
NYALA: 1. city in Sudan. 2. spiral-horned South African antelope with a fringe of white hairs along back and neck. 
NIAMEY: the capital and largest city of Niger
NIB: the writing point of a pen
NIBBED: (used of pens) having a writing point or nib especially of a certain kind
NIBBLE: 1. bite gently. 2. bite off very small pieces. 3. eat intermittently; take small bites of. 
NYBBLE: a small byte
NICAD: a rechargeable battery with a nickel cathode and a cadmium anode; often used in emergency systems because of its low discharge rate when not in use
NICAEA: 1. an ancient city in Bithynia; founded in the 4th century BC and flourished under the Romans; the Nicene Creed was adopted there in 325. 2. the seventh ecumenical council in 787 which refuted iconoclasm and regulated the veneration of holy images. 3. the first ecumenical council in 325 which produced the wording of the Nicene Creed and condemned the heresy of Arianism. 
NICE: 1. pleasant or pleasing or agreeable in nature or appearance. 2. done with delicacy and skill. 
NICELY: in a nice way
NICHE: 1. a position particularly well suited to the person who occupies it. 2. (ecology) the status of an organism within its environment and community (affecting its survival as a species). 
NICK: 1. cut a nick into. 2. cut slightly, with a razor. 3. divide or reset the tail muscles of. 4. mate successfully; of livestock. 
NICKEL: 1. plate with nickel. 2. a United States coin worth one twentieth of a dollar. 3. five dollars worth of a drug. 
NIDUS: a nest in which spiders or insects deposit their eggs
NIECE: a daughter of your brother or sister
NIFF: an unpleasant smell
NIGER: 1. an African river; flows into the South Atlantic. 2. a landlocked republic in West Africa; gained independence from France in 1960; most of the country is dominated by the Sahara Desert. 
NIGGER: (ethnic slur) extremely offensive name for a Black person
NIGHT: 1. the time after sunset and before sunrise while it is dark outside. 2. a period of ignorance or backwardness or gloom. 3. the period spent sleeping. 4. the dark part of the diurnal cycle considered a time unit. 5. darkness. 6. a shortening of nightfall. 7. the time between sunset and midnight. 
NIHIL: (Latin) nil; nothing (as used by a sheriff after an unsuccessful effort to serve a writ)
NILE: the world's longest river (4150 miles); flows northward through eastern Africa into the Mediterranean; the Nile River valley in Egypt was the site of the world's first great civilization
NILGAI: large Indian antelope; male is blue-grey with white markings; female is brownish with no horns
NYLON: 1. a thermoplastic polyamide; a family of strong resilient synthetic fibers. 2. a synthetic fabric. 
NYLONS: women's stockings made from a sheer material (nylon or rayon or silk)
NIM: game in which matchsticks are arranged in rows and players alternately remove one or more of them; in some versions the object is to take the last remaining matchstick on the table and in other versions the object is to avoid taking the last remaining matchstick on the table
NIMBY: someone who objects to siting something in their own neighborhood but does not object to it being sited elsewhere; an acronym for not in my backyard
NIMBUS: a dark grey cloud bearing rain
NYMPH: 1. (classical mythology) a minor nature goddess usually depicted as a beautiful maiden. 2. a larva of an insect with incomplete metamorphosis (as the dragonfly or mayfly). 3. a voluptuously beautiful young woman. 
NIMROD: (Old Testament) a famous hunter
NINE: denoting a quantity consisting of one more than eight and one less than ten
NINETY: being ten more than eighty
NINJA: 1. a member of the ninja who were trained in martial arts and hired for espionage or sabotage or assassinations; a person skilled in ninjutsu. 2. a class of 14th century Japanese who were trained in martial arts and were hired for espionage and assassinations. 
NINON: a fine strong sheer silky fabric made of silk or rayon or nylon
NINTH: coming next after the eighth and just before the tenth in position
NINTU: a name under which Ninkhursag was worshipped
NIOBE: (Greek mythology) the daughter of Tantalus whose boasting about her children provoked Apollo and Artemis to slay them all; Niobe was turned to stone while bewailing her loss
NIP: 1. a small drink of liquor. 2. a tart spicy quality. 3. a small sharp bite or snip. 4. give a small sharp bite to. 5. sever or remove by pinching or snipping. 
NIPA: 1. monotypic genus of palms of Australasia. 2. made from sap of the Australasian nipa palm. 
NIPPY: a sharp biting taste
NIPPLE: 1. the small projection of a mammary gland. 2. a flexible cap on a baby's feeding bottle or pacifier. 
NISAN: the seventh month of the civil year; the first month of the ecclesiastic year (in March and April)
NISEI: a person born in the United States of parents who emigrated from Japan
NISI: not final or absolute
NYSSA: tupelos: deciduous trees of moist habitats especially swamps and beside ponds
NIT: 1. a luminance unit equal to 1 candle per square meter measured perpendicular to the rays from the source. 2. egg or young of an insect parasitic on mammals especially a sucking louse; often attached to a hair or item of clothing. 
NIVOSE: fourth month of the Revolutionary calendar (December and January); the snowy month
NJORD: (Norse mythology) chief of the Vanir; god of the sea and winds and prosperity; father of Frey and Freya; sometimes subsumes Teutonic Nerthus
NOAH: the Hebrew patriarch who saved himself and his family and the animals by building an ark in which they survived 40 days and 40 nights of rain; the story of Noah and the flood is told in the Book of Genesis
NOBBLE: disable by drugging
NOBEL: Swedish chemist remembered for his invention of dynamite and for the bequest that created the Nobel prizes (1833-1896)
NOBLE: 1. of or belonging to or constituting the hereditary aristocracy especially as derived from feudal times. 2. having or showing or indicative of high or elevated character. 3. inert especially toward oxygen. 
NOBLY: in a noble manner
NOC: an undercover agent who is given no official cover
NOCENT: having a tendency to cause harm
NOCTUA: type genus of the Noctuidae: moths whose larvae are cutworms
NOD: 1. express or signify by nodding. 2. lower and raise the head, as to indicate assent or agreement or confirmation. 3. let the head fall forward through drowsiness. 4. sway gently back and forth, as in a nodding motion. 5. be almost asleep. 
NODDLE: an informal British expression for head or mind
NODE: 1. a connecting point at which several lines come together. 2. any thickened enlargement. 3. (botany) the small swelling that is the part of a plant stem from which one or more leaves emerge. 4. (physics) the point of minimum displacement in a periodic system. 5. (astronomy) a point where an orbit crosses a plane. 6. any bulge or swelling of an anatomical structure or part. 7. (computer science) any computer that is hooked up to a computer network. 
NODULE: 1. a small node. 2. small rounded wartlike protuberance on a plant. 3. (mineralogy) a small rounded lump of mineral substance (usually harder than the surrounding rock or sediment). 
NOG: a wooden block built into a masonry wall so that joinery structure can be nailed to it
NO-GO: not functioning properly or in suitable condition for proceeding
NO-HIT: of a game (or the pitching) in which a pitcher allows the opponent no hits
NOHOW: in no manner; in no way
NOYES: English poet (1880-1958)
NOISE: 1. sound of any kind (especially unintelligible or dissonant sound). 2. the auditory experience of sound that lacks musical quality; sound that is a disagreeable auditory experience. 3. electrical or acoustic activity that can disturb communication. 4. a loud outcry of protest or complaint. 5. incomprehensibility resulting from irrelevant information or meaningless facts or remarks. 
NOISY: 1. full of or characterized by loud and nonmusical sounds. 2. attracting attention by showiness or bright colors. 
NOMA: acute ulceration of the mucous membranes of the mouth or genitals; often seen in undernourished children
NOMAD: a member of a people who have no permanent home but move about according to the seasons
NOME: a town in western Alaska on the southern coast of the Seward Peninsula; an important center of an Alaskan gold rush at the beginning of the 20th century
NONE: 1. not at all or in no way. 2. a service in the Roman Catholic Church formerly read or chanted at 3 PM (the ninth hour counting from sunrise) but now somewhat earlier. 
NONES: the fifth of the seven canonical hours; about 3 p.m.
NONFAT: without fat or fat solids
NON-U: not characteristic of the upper classes especially in language use
NOODLE: a ribbonlike strip of pasta
NOOK: a sheltered and secluded place
NOON: the middle of the day
NOOSE: 1. secure with a noose. 2. make a noose in or of. 
NOOTKA: 1. a member of the Wakashan people living on Vancouver Island and in the Cape Flattery region of northwestern Washington. 2. a Wakashan language spoken by the Nootka. 
NOPAL: 1. cactus having yellow flowers and purple fruits. 2. any of several cacti of the genus Nopalea resembling prickly pears. 
NORDIC: 1. of or relating to or constituting the Scandinavian group of languages. 2. relating to Germany and Scandinavia. 3. resembling peoples of Scandinavia. 
NORIA: a water wheel with buckets attached to the rim; used to raise water for transfer to an irrigation channel
NORM: a standard or model or pattern regarded as typical
NORMA: a small constellation in the southern hemisphere near Lupus and Ara in the Milky Way
NORMAL: 1. conforming with or constituting a norm or standard or level or type or social norm; not abnormal. 2. in accordance with scientific laws. 3. being approximately average or within certain limits in e.g. intelligence and development. 4. forming a right angle. 
NORMAN: 1. of or relating to or characteristic of Normandy. 2. of or relating to or characteristic of the Normans. 3. an inhabitant of Normandy. 
NORTH: 1. in a northern direction. 2. the cardinal compass point that is at 0 or 360 degrees. 3. a location in the northern part of a country, region, or city. 4. the direction corresponding to the northward cardinal compass point. 5. the direction in which a compass needle points. 6. British statesman under George III whose policies led to rebellion in the American colonies (1732-1792). 
NORWAY: a constitutional monarchy in northern Europe on the western side of the Scandinavian Peninsula; achieved independence from Sweden in 1905
NOSE: 1. the organ of smell and entrance to the respiratory tract; the prominent part of the face of man or other mammals. 2. advance the forward part of with caution. 3. the front or forward projection of a tool or weapon. 4. push or move with the nose. 5. a symbol of inquisitiveness. 6. defeat by a narrow margin. 7. a natural skill. 
NOSED: having a nose (either literal or metaphoric) especially of a specified kind
NOSH: eat a snack; eat lightly
NOSHER: someone who eats lightly or eats snacks between meals
NOSY: offensively curious or inquisitive
NOSTOC: found in moist places as rounded jellylike colonies
NOTARY: someone legally empowered to witness signatures and certify a document's validity and to take depositions
NOTATE: put into notation, as of music or choreography; in the old days, the steps had to be memorized"
NOTCH: 1. cut or make a notch into. 2. a V-shaped or U-shaped indentation carved or scratched into a surface. 3. a small cut. 4. notch a surface to record something. 
NOTE: 1. make mention of. 2. a short personal letter. 3. observe with care or pay close attention to. 4. make a written note of. 5. a characteristic emotional quality. 6. a comment or instruction (usually added). 7. a promise to pay a specified amount on demand or at a certain time. 
NOTED: worthy of notice or attention
NOTICE: 1. an announcement containing information about an event. 2. notice or perceive. 3. express recognition of the presence or existence of, or acquaintance with. 4. polite or favorable attention. 5. a short critical review. 
NOTION: 1. a general inclusive concept. 2. an odd or fanciful or capricious idea. 3. (usually plural) small personal articles or clothing or sewing items. 
NOUGAT: nuts or fruit pieces in a sugar paste
NOUN: 1. a content word that can be used to refer to a person, place, thing, quality, or action. 2. the word class that can serve as the subject or object of a verb, the object of a preposition, or in apposition. 
NOUS: common sense
NOVA: a star that ejects some of its material in the form of a cloud and become more luminous in the process
NOVATE: replace with something new, especially an old obligation by a new one
NOVEL: 1. an extended fictional work in prose; usually in the form of a story. 2. pleasantly new or different. 
NOVENA: a Roman Catholic devotion consisting of prayers on nine consecutive days
NOVIAL: an artificial language
NOVICE: someone new to a field or activity
NOW: 1. in the historical present; at this point in the narration of a series of past events. 2. used to preface a command or reproof or request. 3. at the present moment. 4. (prefatory or transitional) indicates a change of subject or activity. 5. in the immediate past. 
NOWISE: in no manner
NOZZLE: a projecting spout from which a fluid is discharged
NUANCE: a subtle difference in meaning or opinion or attitude
NUB: 1. a small lump or protuberance. 2. a small piece. 
NUBBIN: a small nub (especially an undeveloped fruit or ear of corn)
NUBIA: an ancient region of northeastern Africa (southern Egypt and northern Sudan) on the Nile; much of Nubia is now under Lake Nasser
NUBIAN: a native or inhabitant of Nubia
NUDA: ctenophores lacking tentacles; comprises one genus: beroe
NUDE: 1. a painting of a naked human figure. 2. without clothing (especially in the phrase `in the nude'). 3. a naked person. 4. a statue of a naked human figure. 
NUDGE: 1. to push against gently. 2. push into action by pestering or annoying gently. 
NUDGER: someone who nudges; someone who gives a gentle push
NUDISM: going without clothes as a social practice
NUDIST: a person who practices nudity for reasons of health or religion
NUDNIK: (Yiddish) someone who is a boring pest
NUGGET: a solid lump of a precious metal (especially gold) as found in the earth
NUKE: strike at with firepower or bombs
NULL: lacking any legal or binding force
NULLAH: a ravine or gully in southern Asia
NUMB: 1. make numb or insensitive. 2. so frightened as to be unable to move; stunned or paralyzed with terror; petrified. 
NUMBAT: small Australian marsupial having long snout and strong claws for feeding on termites; nearly extinct
NUMBER: 1. the property possessed by a sum or total or indefinite quantity of units or individuals. 2. give numbers to. 3. a select company of people. 4. a numeral or string of numerals that is used for identification. 5. a clothing measurement. 6. the grammatical category for the forms of nouns and pronouns and verbs that are used depending on the number of entities involved (singular or dual or plural). 7. an item of merchandise offered for sale. 8. enumerate. 9. place a limit on the number of. 
NUMBLY: in a numb manner; without feeling
NUMDAH: an embroidered rug made from a coarse Indian felt
NUMEN: a spirit believed to inhabit an object or preside over a place (especially in ancient Roman religion)
NUMIDA: guinea fowl
NUNCIO: (Roman Catholic Church) a diplomatic representative of the Pope having ambassadorial status
NUPHAR: spatterdocks
NURSE: 1. try to cure by special care of treatment, of an illness or injury. 2. serve as a nurse; care for sick or handicapped people. 3. treat carefully. 
NURSED: (of an infant) breast-fed
NURSER: a person who treats something carefully
NUSKU: god of fire and light; corresponds to Babylonian Girru
NUT: 1. gather nuts. 2. Egyptian goddess of the sky. 3. a small (usually square or hexagonal) metal block with internal screw thread to be fitted onto a bolt. 
NUTATE: rock, sway, or nod; usually involuntarily
NUTLET: a small nut
NUTMEG: 1. East Indian tree widely cultivated in the tropics for its aromatic seed; source of two spices: nutmeg and mace. 2. hard aromatic seed of the nutmeg tree used as spice when grated or ground. 
NUTTER: a person who is regarded as eccentric or mad
NUTTY: having the flavor of nuts
NUZZLE: 1. rub noses. 2. dig out with the snout. 
OAHU: an island of central Hawaii (between Molokai and Kauai); the chief island of the state
OAK: 1. the hard durable wood of any oak; used especially for furniture and flooring. 2. a deciduous tree of the genus Quercus; has acorns and lobed leaves. 
OAKEN: consisting of or made of wood of the oak tree
OAKUM: loose hemp or jute fiber obtained by unravelling old ropes; when impregnated with tar it was used to caulk seams and pack joints in wooden ships
OAR: an implement used to propel or steer a boat
OASIS: a fertile tract in a desert (where the water table approaches the surface)
OAST: a kiln for drying hops
OAT: 1. annual grass of Europe and North Africa; grains used as food and fodder (referred to primarily in the plural: `oats'). 2. seed of the annual grass Avena sativa (spoken of primarily in the plural as `oats'). 
OATEN: of or related to or derived from oats
OATH: 1. a commitment to tell the truth (especially in a court of law); to lie under oath is to become subject to prosecution for perjury. 2. a solemn promise, usually invoking a divine witness, regarding your future acts or behavior. 
OAXACA: a city of southeastern Mexico
OBEAH: 1. (West Indies) followers of a religious system involving witchcraft and sorcery. 2. a religious belief of African origin involving witchcraft and sorcery; practiced in parts of the West Indies and tropical Americas. 
OBECHE: 1. the wood of an African obeche tree; used especially for veneering. 2. large west African tree having large palmately lobed leaves and axillary cymose panicles of small white flowers and one-winged seeds; yields soft white to pale yellow wood. 
OBEY: be obedient to
OBIISM: belief in a kind of sorcery that originated in Africa and is practiced in the West Indies
OBJECT: 1. express or raise an objection or protest or criticism or express dissent. 2. (grammar) a constituent that is acted upon. 3. the focus of cognitions or feelings. 4. (computing) a discrete item that provides a description of virtually anything known to a computer. 5. be averse to or express disapproval of. 
OBLATE: having the equatorial diameter greater than the polar diameter; being flattened at the poles
OBLIGE: 1. bind by an obligation; cause to be indebted. 2. provide a service or favor for someone. 
OBLONG: 1. (of a leaf shape) having a somewhat elongated form with approximately parallel sides. 2. deviating from a square or circle or sphere by being elongated in one direction. 
OBOE: a slender double-reed instrument; a woodwind with a conical bore and a double-reed mouthpiece
OBOIST: a musician who plays the oboe
OBOLUS: a Greek unit of weight equal to one tenth of a gram
OBSESS: be preoccupied with something
OBTAIN: come into possession of
OBTUND: reduce the edge or violence of
OBTUSE: 1. of an angle; between 90 and 180 degrees. 2. (of a leaf shape) rounded at the apex. 3. lacking in insight or discernment. 
OCA: South American wood sorrel cultivated for its edible tubers
OCCAM: English scholastic philosopher and assumed author of Occam's Razor (1285-1349)
OCCULT: 1. become concealed or hidden from view or have its light extinguished. 2. hide from view. 3. hidden and difficult to see. 
OCCUPY: 1. live (in a certain place). 2. occupy the whole of. 
OCCUR: 1. come to one's mind; suggest itself. 2. to be found to exist. 
OCEAN: 1. a large body of water constituting a principal part of the hydrosphere. 2. anything apparently limitless in quantity or volume. 
OCELOT: nocturnal wildcat of Central America and South America having a dark-spotted buff-brown coat
OCHER: 1. of a moderate orange-yellow color. 2. any of various earths containing silica and alumina and ferric oxide; used as a pigment. 
OCHNA: type genus of Ochnaceae; evergreen trees and shrubs of Old World tropics
OCIMUM: basil
OCTAL: of or pertaining to a number system having 8 as its base
OCTANE: any isomeric saturated hydrocarbon found in petroleum and used as a fuel and solvent
OCTANS: the constellation that includes the southern celestial pole
OCTANT: a measuring instrument for measuring angles to a celestial body; similar to a sextant but with 45 degree calibration
OCTAVE: 1. a feast day and the seven days following it. 2. a musical interval of eight tones. 3. a rhythmic group of eight lines of verse. 
OCTAVO: the size of a book whose pages are made by folding a sheet of paper three times to form eight leaves
OCTET: 1. eight performers or singers who perform together. 2. a set of eight similar things considered as a unit. 3. eight people considered as a unit. 4. a musical composition written for eight performers. 
OCTROI: a tax on various goods brought into a town
OCULAR: 1. of or relating to or resembling the eye. 2. relating to or using sight. 3. visible; give me the ocular proof"- Shakespeare. 
ODD: 1. not divisible by two. 2. not easily explained. 3. an indefinite quantity more than that specified. 4. of the remaining member of a pair, of socks e.g.. 
ODDISH: somewhat strange
ODDITY: 1. eccentricity that is not easily explained. 2. a strange attitude or habit. 
ODDS: 1. the likelihood of a thing occurring rather than not occurring. 2. the ratio by which one better's wager is greater than that of another. 
ODE: a lyric poem with complex stanza forms
ODER: a European river; flows into the Baltic Sea
ODESSA: 1. a port city of south central Ukraine on an arm of the Black Sea. 2. a city in western Texas. 
ODIN: (Norse mythology) ruler of the Aesir; supreme god of war and poetry and knowledge and wisdom (for which he gave an eye) and husband of Frigg; identified with the Teutonic Wotan
ODIST: a poet who writes odes
ODIUM: state of disgrace resulting from detestable behavior
OEUVRE: the total output of a writer or artist (or a substantial part of it)
OFF: 1. not in operation or operational. 2. at a distance in space or time. 3. no longer on or in contact or attached. 4. in an unpalatable state. 5. not performing or scheduled for duties. 
OFFAL: viscera and trimmings of a butchered animal often considered inedible by humans
OFFER: 1. make available or accessible, provide or furnish. 2. present for acceptance or rejection. 3. put forward for consideration. 4. offer verbally. 5. make available for sale. 6. propose a payment. 7. produce or introduce on the stage. 8. present as an act of worship. 9. threaten to do something. 
OFFICE: 1. place of business where professional or clerical duties are performed. 2. (of a government or government official) holding an office means being in power. 3. professional or clerical workers in an office. 4. a religious rite or service prescribed by ecclesiastical authorities. 
OFFING: 1. the near or foreseeable future. 2. the part of the sea that can be seen from the shore and is beyond the anchoring area. 
OFFISH: lacking cordiality; unfriendly
OFFSET: 1. produce by offset printing. 2. compensate for or counterbalance. 3. cause (printed matter) to transfer or smear onto another surface. 4. create an offset in. 
OFO: 1. a member of the Siouan people living in the Yazoo river valley in Mississippi. 2. a Siouan language spoken by the Ofo. 
OFTEN: in many cases or instances
OGDEN: 1. English psychologist who collaborated with I. A. Richards in designing Basic English (1889-1957). 2. a town in northern Utah settled by Mormons. 
OGEE: a molding that (in section) has the shape of an S with the convex part above and the concave part below
OGLALA: 1. a member of the Siouan people who constituted a division of the Teton Sioux and who formerly inhabited the Black Hills of western South Dakota. 2. a Siouan language spoken by the Oglala. 
OGLE: look at with amorous intentions
OGLER: a viewer who gives a flirtatious or lewd look at another person
OGRE: (folklore) a giant who likes to eat human beings
OGRESS: (folklore) a female ogre
OHIO: 1. a midwestern state in north central United States in the Great Lakes region. 2. a river that is formed in western Pennsylvania and flows westward to become a tributary of the Mississippi River. 
OHIOAN: a native or resident of Ohio
OHM: 1. a unit of electrical resistance equal to the resistance between two points on a conductor when a potential difference of one volt between them produces a current of one ampere. 2. German physicist who formulated Ohm's law (1787-1854). 
OHMAGE: the ohmic resistance of a conductor
OHMIC: of or relating to or measured in ohms
OIL: 1. cover with oil, as if by rubbing. 2. oil paint containing pigment that is used by an artist. 
OILCAN: a can with a long nozzle to apply oil to machinery
OILED: treated with oil
OILER: a worker who oils engines or machinery
OILY: coated or covered with oil
OILMAN: 1. a person who owns or operates oil wells. 2. a worker who produces or sells petroleum. 
OYSTER: 1. gather oysters, dig oysters. 2. a small muscle on each side of the back of a fowl. 
OJIBWA: 1. a member of an Algonquian people who lived west of Lake Superior. 2. the Algonquian language spoken by the Ojibwa. 
OKA: 1. a Turkish unit of weight equal to about 2.75 pounds. 2. a Turkish liquid unit equal to 1.3 pints. 
OKAY: in a satisfactory or adequate manner; (`alright' is a nonstandard variant of `all right')
OKAPI: similar to the giraffe but smaller with much shorter neck and stripe on the legs
OKAPIA: okapis
OKEN: German naturalist whose speculations that plants and animals are made up of tiny living `infusoria' led to the cell theory (1779-1851)
OKRA: 1. long green edible beaked pods of the okra plant. 2. tall coarse annual of Old World tropics widely cultivated in southern United States and West Indies for its long mucilaginous green pods used as basis for soups and stews; sometimes placed in genus Hibiscus. 
OLA: leaf or strip from a leaf of the talipot palm used in India for writing paper
OLD: 1. (used especially of persons) having lived for a relatively long time or attained a specific age. 2. of long duration; not new. 3. (used for emphasis) very familiar. 4. skilled through long experience. 5. of a very early stage in development. 
OLDEN: long past
OLDIE: a song that was formerly popular
OLDISH: somewhat elderly
OLEA: evergreen trees and shrubs having oily one-seeded fruits
OLIVE: 1. of a yellow-green color similar to that of an unripe olive. 2. evergreen tree cultivated in the Mediterranean region since antiquity and now elsewhere; has edible shiny black fruits. 3. hard yellow often variegated wood of an olive tree; used in cabinetwork. 4. one-seeded fruit of the European olive tree usually pickled and used as a relish. 5. a yellow-green color of low brightness and saturation. 
OLM: European aquatic salamander with permanent external gills that lives in caves
OLOGY: an informal word (abstracted from words with this ending) for some unidentified branch of knowledge
OMAHA: 1. a member of the Siouan people formerly living in the Missouri river valley in northeastern Nebraska. 2. largest city in Nebraska; located in eastern Nebraska on the Missouri river; a major transportation center of the Midwest. 3. the Dhegiha dialect spoken by the Omaha. 4. thoroughbred that won the triple crown in 1935. 
OMAN: a strategically located monarchy on the southern and eastern coasts of the Arabian Peninsula; the economy is dominated by oil
OMANI: of or relating to Oman or its people
OMEGA: 1. the ending of a series or sequence. 2. the last (24th) letter of the Greek alphabet. 
OMELET: beaten eggs or an egg mixture cooked until just set; may be folded around e.g. ham or cheese or jelly
OMEN: a sign of something about to happen
OMSK: a city in the Asian part of Russia
ON: 1. in operation or operational. 2. indicates continuity or persistence or concentration. 3. in a state required for something to function or be effective. 
ONAGER: Asiatic wild ass
ONCE: 1. on one occasion. 2. as soon as. 3. at a previous time; . 
ONE: 1. used of a single unit or thing; not two or more. 2. having the indivisible character of a unit. 3. of the same kind or quality. 4. used informally as an intensifier. 5. indefinite in time or position. 6. being a single entity made by combining separate components. 
ONEIDA: 1. a member of the Iroquoian people formerly living east of Lake Ontario. 2. the Iroquoian language spoken by the Oneida. 
ONION: 1. the bulb of an onion plant. 2. bulbous plant having hollow leaves cultivated worldwide for its rounded edible bulb. 3. an aromatic flavorful vegetable. 
ONYX: a chalcedony with alternating black and white bands; used in making cameos
ONLY: 1. with nevertheless the final result. 2. in the final outcome. 3. except that; only this time she came out better". 4. never except when. 5. as recently as. 
ONONIS: genus of European subshrubs or herbs having pink or purple or yellow solitary or clustered flowers: restharrow
ONRUSH: a forceful forward rush or flow
ONSET: the beginning or early stages
ONSIDE: not offside; being within the prescribed area of play
OOCYTE: a female gametocyte that develops into an ovum after two meiotic divisions
OOLOGY: the branch of zoology that studies eggs (especially birds' eggs and their size, shape, coloration, and number)
OOLONG: Chinese tea leaves that have been partially fermented before being dried
OOTID: mature ovum after penetration by sperm but before the formation of a zygote
OOZING: leaking out slowly
OPAH: large elliptical brightly colored deep-sea fish of Atlantic and Pacific and Mediterranean
OPAL: a translucent mineral consisting of hydrated silica of variable color; some varieties are used as gemstones
OPAQUE: 1. not transmitting or reflecting light or radiant energy; impenetrable to sight. 2. not clearly understood or expressed. 
OPEL: German industrialist who was the first in Germany to use an assembly line in manufacturing automobiles (1871-1948)
OPEN: 1. affording unobstructed entrance and exit; not shut or closed. 2. become open. 3. open to or in view of all. 4. affording free passage or access. 5. not having been filled. 6. accessible to all. 7. have an opening or passage or outlet. 8. make the opening move. 9. (set theory) of an interval that contains neither of its endpoints. 10. used of mouth or eyes. 11. having no protecting cover or enclosure. 12. not brought to a conclusion; subject to further thought. 13. not sealed or having been unsealed. 14. without undue constriction as from e.g. tenseness or inhibition. 15. not requiring union membership. 16. ready for business. 
OPENED: made open or clear
OPENER: 1. the first event in a series. 2. a hand tool used for opening sealed containers (bottles or cans). 
OPENLY: in an open way
OPERA: 1. a drama set to music; consists of singing with orchestral accompaniment and an orchestral overture and interludes. 2. a commercial browser. 3. a building where musical dramas are performed. 
OPERON: a segment of DNA containing adjacent genes including structural genes and an operator gene and a regulatory gene
OPHRYS: a hardy genus of terrestrial orchids of Europe and northern Africa and western Asia
OPIATE: a narcotic drug that contains opium or an opium derivative
OPINE: express one's opinion openly and without fear or hesitation
OPIUM: an addictive narcotic extracted from seed capsules of the opium poppy
OPPOSE: 1. be against; express opposition to. 2. contrast with equal weight or force. 3. be resistant to. 
OPSIN: retinal protein formed by the action of light on rhodopsin
OPTEZ: an artificial language
OPTICS: 1. the branch of physics that studies the physical properties of light. 2. optical properties. 
OPTION: 1. the right to buy or sell property at an agreed price; the right is purchased and if it is not exercised by a stated date the money is forfeited. 2. one of a number of things from which only one can be chosen. 
ORACH: any of various herbaceous plants of the genus Atriplex that thrive in deserts and salt marshes
ORACLE: 1. a prophecy (usually obscure or allegorical) revealed by a priest or priestess; believed to be infallible. 2. a shrine where an oracular god is consulted. 
ORAD: toward the mouth or oral region
ORAL: 1. using speech rather than writing. 2. of or relating to or affecting or for use in the mouth. 3. of or involving the mouth or mouth region or the surface on which the mouth is located. 4. a stage in psychosexual development when the child's interest is concentrated in the mouth; fixation at this stage is said to result in dependence, selfishness, and aggression. 
ORALLY: 1. (of drugs) through the mouth rather than through injection; by_mouth. 2. by spoken rather than written means. 
ORAN: a port city in northwestern Algeria and the country's 2nd largest city
ORANGE: 1. of the color between red and yellow; similar to the color of a ripe orange. 2. orange color or pigment; any of a range of colors between red and yellow. 3. any citrus tree bearing oranges. 4. any pigment producing the orange color. 5. a river in South Africa that flows generally westward to the Atlantic Ocean. 
ORATE: talk pompously
ORATOR: a person who delivers a speech or oration
ORB: move in an orbit
ORBIT: 1. the (usually elliptical) path described by one celestial body in its revolution about another. 2. the path of an electron around the nucleus of an atom. 
ORCHID: any of numerous plants of the orchid family usually having flowers of unusual shapes and beautiful colors
ORCHIL: a purplish dye obtained from orchil lichens
ORCHIS: any of various deciduous terrestrial orchids having fleshy tubers and flowers in erect terminal racemes
ORCZY: British writer (born in Hungary) (1865-1947)
ORDAIN: 1. order by virtue of superior authority; decree. 2. appoint to a clerical posts. 3. invest with ministerial or priestly authority. 4. issue an order. 
ORDEAL: 1. a severe or trying experience. 2. a primitive method of determining a person's guilt or innocence by subjecting the accused person to dangerous or painful tests believed to be under divine control; escape was usually taken as a sign of innocence. 
ORDER: 1. give instructions to or direct somebody to do something with authority. 2. make a request for something. 3. issue commands or orders for. 4. a commercial document used to request someone to supply something in return for payment and providing specifications and quantities. 5. a body of rules followed by an assembly. 6. a group of person living under a religious rule. 7. (biology) taxonomic group containing one or more families. 8. a request for something to be made, supplied, or served. 9. (architecture) one of original three styles of Greek architecture distinguished by the type of column and entablature used or a style developed from the original three by the Romans. 10. the act of putting things in a sequential arrangement. 11. bring order to or into. 12. place in a certain order. 
ORE: 1. a mineral that contains metal that is valuable enough to be mined. 2. a monetary subunit in Denmark and Norway and Sweden; 100 ore equal 1 krona. 
OREAD: (Greek mythology) one of the mountain nymphs
OREGON: a state in northwestern United States on the Pacific
ORFF: German musician who developed a widely used system for teaching music to children (1895-1982)
ORGAN: 1. a fully differentiated structural and functional unit in an animal that is specialized for some particular function. 2. a government agency or instrument devoted to the performance of some specific function. 3. a periodical that is published by a special interest group. 4. wind instrument whose sound is produced by means of pipes arranged in sets supplied with air from a bellows and controlled from a large complex musical keyboard. 
ORGASM: the moment of most intense pleasure in sexual intercourse
ORGY: 1. any act of immoderate indulgence. 2. secret rite in the cults of ancient Greek or Roman deities involving singing and dancing and drinking and sexual activity. 3. a wild gathering involving excessive drinking and promiscuity. 
ORIEL: a projecting bay window corbeled or cantilevered out from a wall
ORIENT: 1. be oriented. 2. determine one's position with reference to another point. 3. cause to point. 4. familiarize (someone) with new surroundings or circumstances. 
ORIGEN: Greek philosopher and theologian who reinterpreted Christian doctrine through the philosophy of Neoplatonism; his work was later condemned as unorthodox (185-254)
ORIGIN: 1. properties attributable to your ancestry. 2. an event that is a beginning; a first part or stage of subsequent events. 3. the point of intersection of coordinate axes; where the values of the coordinates are all zero. 4. the source of something's existence or from which it derives or is derived. 
ORIYA: 1. a member of a people in India living in Orissa and neighboring areas. 2. a Magadhan language that is spoken by the Oriya and is the official language of the Indian state of Orissa. 
ORION: 1. (Greek mythology) a giant Boeotian hunter who pursued the Pleiades and was eventually slain by Artemis; was then placed in the sky as a constellation. 2. a constellation on the equator to the east of Taurus; contains Betelgeuse and Rigel. 
ORISSA: state in eastern India on the Bay of Bengal
ORYX: large African antelope with long straight nearly upright horns
ORYZA: rice
ORLY: a southeastern suburb of Paris; site of an international airport serving Paris
ORLON: an acrylic fiber or the lightweight crease-resistant fabric made with Orlon yarns
ORMAZD: chief deity of Zoroastrianism; source of light and embodiment of good
ORMER: an abalone found near the Channel Islands
ORMOLU: brass that looks like gold; used to decorate furniture
OROIDE: alloy of copper and tin and zinc; used in imitation gold jewelry
ORONO: a university town in east central Maine on the Penobscot River to the north of Bangor
ORPHAN: 1. deprive of parents. 2. someone or something who lacks support or care or supervision. 3. the first line of a paragraph that is set as the last line of a page or column. 4. a young animal without a mother. 
ORPHIC: ascribed to Orpheus or characteristic of ideas in works ascribed to Orpheus
ORPINE: perennial northern temperate plant with toothed leaves and heads of small purplish-white flowers
ORRERY: planetarium consisting of an apparatus that illustrates the relative positions and motions of bodies in the solar system by rotation and revolution of balls moved by wheelwork; sometimes incorporated in a clock
ORWELL: imaginative British writer concerned with social justice (1903-1950)
ORZO: pasta shaped like pearls of barley; frequently prepared with lamb in Greek cuisine
OSAGE: 1. a member of the Siouan people formerly living in Missouri in the valleys of the Missouri and Osage rivers; oil was found on Osage lands early in the 20th century. 2. a river in Missouri that is a tributary of the Missouri River. 3. the Dhegiha dialect spoken by the Osage. 
OSAKA: port city on southern Honshu on Osaka Bay; a commercial and industrial center of Japan
OSCAN: 1. an Oscan-speaking member of an ancient people of Campania. 2. an extinct Italic language of ancient southern Italy. 
OSCINE: of or relating to the songbirds
OSIER: 1. flexible twig of a willow tree. 2. any of various willows having pliable twigs used in basketry and furniture. 
OSIRIS: Egyptian god of the underworld and judge of the dead; husband and brother of Isis; father of Horus
OSLO: the capital and largest city of Norway; the country's main port; located at the head of a fjord on Norway's southern coast
OSMIUM: a hard brittle blue-grey or blue-black metallic element that is one of the platinum metals; the heaviest metal known
OSPREY: large harmless hawk found worldwide that feeds on fish and builds a bulky nest often occupied for years
OSSETE: a northeastern Iranian language spoken in Russia
OSSIFY: 1. become bony. 2. cause to become hard and bony. 
OSTEAL: relating to bone or to the skeleton
OSTYAK: a member of the nomadic Ugrian people living in northwestern Siberia (east of the Urals)
OSTOMY: surgical procedure that creates an artificial opening for the elimination of bodily wastes
OSTREA: type genus of the family Ostreidae
OSTRYA: deciduous monoecious trees of Europe and Asia and America; sometimes placed in subfamily or family Carpinaceae
OTARIA: type genus of the Otariidae
OTHER: 1. not the same one or ones already mentioned or implied. 2. recently past. 3. very unusual; different in character or quality from the normal or expected. 
OTIC: of or relating to near the ear
OTIDES: terrestrial game birds of the Old World and Australia: bustards
OTIOSE: serving no useful purpose; having no excuse for being
OTITIS: inflammation of the ear
OTO: 1. a member of the Siouan people inhabiting the valleys of the Platte and Missouri rivers in Nebraska. 2. a dialect of the Chiwere language spoken by the Oto. 
OTTAWA: 1. a member of the Algonquian people of southern Ontario. 2. the capital of Canada (located in southeastern Ontario across the Ottawa river from Quebec). 
OTTER: 1. the fur of an otter. 2. freshwater carnivorous mammal having webbed and clawed feet and dark brown fur. 
OTUS: a genus of Strigidae
OUIJA: a board with the alphabet on it; used with a planchette to spell out supernatural messages
OUJDA: a city in northeastern Morocco near the Algerian border
OUNCE: 1. a unit of apothecary weight equal to 480 grains or one twelfth of a pound. 2. a unit of weight equal to one sixteenth of a pound or 16 drams or 28.349 grams. 
OUSE: a river in northeastern England that flows generally southeastward to join the Trent River and form the Humber
OUST: 1. remove from a position or office. 2. remove and replace. 
OUSTER: 1. a person who ousts or supplants someone else. 2. a wrongful dispossession. 3. the act of ejecting someone or forcing them out. 
OUT: 1. away from home. 2. moving or appearing to move away from a place, especially one that is enclosed or hidden; . 3. not worth considering as a possibility. 4. out of power; especially having been unsuccessful in an election. 5. directed outward or serving to direct something outward. 6. no longer fashionable. 7. outside or external. 8. outer or outlying. 
OUTAGE: 1. the amount of something (as whiskey or oil) lost in storage or transportation. 2. a temporary suspension of operation (as of computers). 
OUTBID: 1. bid over an opponent's bid when one's partner has not bid or doubled. 2. bid higher than others. 
OUTDO: get the better of
OUTER: 1. being on the outside or further from a center. 2. located outside. 3. being on or toward the outside of the body. 
OUTFIT: 1. any cohesive unit such as a military company. 2. a set of clothing (with accessories). 
OUTFOX: outdo someone in trickery
OUTGO: money paid out; an amount spent
OUTLAW: declare illegal; outlaw
OUTPUT: 1. production of a certain amount. 2. the quantity of something (as a commodity) that is created (usually within a given period of time). 3. what is produced in a given time period. 4. to create or manufacture a specific amount. 
OUTRUN: run faster than
OUTWIT: beat through cleverness and wit
OUZO: a Greek liquor flavored with anise
OVARY: 1. the organ that bears the ovules of a flower. 2. (vertebrates) one of usually two organs that produce ova and secrete estrogen and progesterone. 
OVATE: of a leaf shape; egg-shaped with the broader end at the base
OVEN: kitchen appliance used for baking or roasting
OVER: 1. at or to a point across intervening space etc.. 2. throughout an area. 3. throughout a period of time. 4. beyond the top or upper surface or edge; forward from an upright position; . 
OVERDO: do something to an excessive degree
OVERT: open and observable; not secret or hidden
OVIBOS: consisting of the musk-ox
OVID: Roman poet remembered for his elegiac verses on love (43 BC - AD 17)
OVIEDO: a city in northwestern Spain near the Cantabrian Mountains
OVINE: of or pertaining to or of the nature of or characteristic of a sheep or sheep
OVIS: sheep
OVOID: an egg-shaped object
OVOLO: a convex molding having a cross section in the form of a quarter of a circle or of an ellipse
OVULAR: 1. being or of the nature of an ovule. 2. of or relating to an ovum. 
OVULE: 1. a small body that contains the female germ cell of a plant; develops into a seed after fertilization. 2. a small or immature ovum. 
OVUM: the female reproductive cell; the female gamete
OWE: 1. be obliged to pay or repay. 2. be indebted to, in an abstract or intellectual sense. 3. be in debt. 
OWEN: 1. Welsh industrialist and social reformer who founded cooperative communities (1771-1858). 2. English comparative anatomist and paleontologist who was an opponent of Darwinism (1804-1892). 
OWL: nocturnal bird of prey with hawk-like beak and claws and large head with front-facing eyes
OWLET: young owl
OWLISH: resembling an owl; solemn and wise in appearance
OWN: belonging to or on behalf of a specified person (especially yourself); preceded by a possessive
OWNED: having an owner; often used in combination
OWNER: 1. (law) someone who owns (is legal possessor of) a business. 2. a person who owns something. 
OX: 1. an adult castrated bull of the genus Bos; especially Bos taurus. 2. any of various wild bovines especially of the genera Bos or closely related Bibos. 
OXALIS: any plant or flower of the genus Oxalis
OXBOW: 1. the land inside an oxbow bend in a river. 2. a U-shaped curve in a stream. 3. a wooden framework bent in the shape of a U; its upper ends are attached to the horizontal yoke and the loop goes around the neck of an ox. 
OXCART: a cart that is drawn by an ox
OXEYE: 1. Eurasian perennial herbs having daisylike flowers with yellow rays and dark centers. 2. an oval or round dormer window. 
OXFORD: 1. a city in southern England to the northwest of London; site of Oxford University. 2. a university town in northern Mississippi; home of William Faulkner. 3. a low shoe laced over the instep. 
OXIDE: any compound of oxygen with another element or a radical
OXYGEN: a nonmetallic bivalent element that is normally a colorless odorless tasteless nonflammable diatomic gas; constitutes 21 percent of the atmosphere by volume; the most abundant element in the earth's crust
OXIME: any compound containing the group -C=NOH
OXLIP: Eurasian primrose with yellow flowers clustered in a one-sided umbel
OXTAIL: the skinned tail of cattle; used especially for soups
OZARKS: an area of low mountains in northwestern Arkansas and southeastern Missouri and northeastern Oklahoma
OZENA: a chronic disease of the nose characterized by a foul-smelling nasal discharge and atrophy of nasal structures
OZONE: a colorless gas (O3) soluble in alkalis and cold water; a strong oxidizing agent; can be produced by electric discharge in oxygen or by the action of ultraviolet radiation on oxygen in the stratosphere (where it acts as a screen for ultraviolet radiation)
PABLUM: a soft form of cereal for infants
PACA: large burrowing rodent of South America and Central America; highly esteemed as food
PACE: 1. walk with slow or fast paces. 2. measure (distances) by pacing. 3. regulate or set the pace of. 4. go at a pace. 
PACER: 1. a horse used to set the pace in racing. 2. a horse trained to a special gait in which both feet on one side leave the ground together. 
PACIFY: 1. cause to be more favorably inclined; gain the good will of. 2. fight violence and try to establish peace in (a location). 
PACING: walking with slow regular strides
PACK: 1. fill to capacity. 2. compress into a wad. 3. a group of hunting animals. 4. a cream that cleanses and tones the skin. 5. a sheet or blanket (either dry or wet) to wrap around the body for its therapeutic effect. 6. a bundle (especially one carried on the back). 7. arrange in a container. 8. carry, as on one's back. 9. set up a committee or legislative body with one's own supporters so as to influence the outcome. 10. seal with packing. 11. load with a pack. 12. treat the body or any part of it by wrapping it, as with blankets or sheets, and applying compresses to it, or stuffing it to provide cover, containment, or therapy, or to absorb blood. 
PACKED: pressed together or compressed
PACKER: a workman employed to pack things into containers
PACKET: 1. (computer science) a message or message fragment. 2. a small package or bundle. 
PAD: 1. a number of sheets of paper fastened together along one edge. 2. the large floating leaf of an aquatic plant (as the water lily). 3. line or stuff with soft material. 4. add padding to. 5. the fleshy cushion-like underside of an animal's foot or of a human's finger. 
PADAUK: tree native to southeastern Asia having reddish wood with a mottled or striped black grain
PADDA: a genus of Ploceidae
PADDY: 1. (ethnic slur) offensive term for a person of Irish descent. 2. an irrigated or flooded field where rice is grown. 3. rice in the husk either gathered or still in the field. 
PADDLE: 1. propel with a paddle. 2. a blade of a paddle wheel or water wheel. 3. swim like a dog in shallow water. 4. a short light oar used without an oarlock to propel a canoe or small boat. 5. stir with a paddle. 
PADUA: a city in Veneto
PAEAN: (ancient Greece) a hymn of praise (especially one sung in ancient Greece to invoke or thank a deity)
PAELLA: saffron-flavored dish made of rice with shellfish and chicken
PAGAN: a person who follows a polytheistic or pre-Christian religion (not a Christian or Muslim or Jew)
PAGE: 1. contact, as with a pager or by calling somebody's name over a P.A. system. 2. work as a page. 3. United States diplomat and writer about the Old South (1853-1922). 4. a boy who is employed to run errands. 5. a youthful attendant at official functions or ceremonies such as legislative functions and weddings. 6. in medieval times a youth acting as a knight's attendant as the first stage in training for knighthood. 
PAGET: English pathologist who discovered the cause of trichinosis (1814-1899)
PAGING: calling out the name of a person (especially by a loudspeaker system)
PAGODA: an Asian temple; usually a pyramidal tower with an upward curving roof
PAGRUS: a genus of Sparidae
PAY: 1. give money, usually in exchange for goods or services. 2. do or give something to somebody in return. 3. be worth it. 4. render. 5. bear (a cost or penalty), in recompense for some action. 6. make a compensation for. 7. discharge or settle. 
PAID: marked by the reception of pay
PAYDAY: the day on which you receive pay for your work
PAYE: the British system of withholding tax
PAYEE: a person to whom money is paid
PAYER: a person who pays money for something
PAIL: the quantity contained in a pail
PAIN: 1. a symptom of some physical hurt or disorder. 2. cause emotional anguish or make miserable. 3. a somatic sensation of acute discomfort. 4. a bothersome annoying person. 
PAINE: 1. American Revolutionary leader and signer of the Declaration of Independence (1731-1814). 2. American Revolutionary leader and pamphleteer (born in England) who supported the American colonist's fight for independence and supported the French Revolution (1737-1809). 
PAYNIM: a heathen; a person who is not a Christian (especially a Muslim)
PAINT: 1. make a painting. 2. apply paint to; coat with paint. 3. make a painting of. 4. apply a liquid to; e.g., paint the gutters with linseed oil. 
PAYOFF: the final payment of a debt
PAYOLA: a bribe given to a disc jockey to induce him to promote a particular record
PAIR: 1. form a pair or pairs. 2. occur in pairs. 3. arrange in pairs. 
PAIRED: mated sexually
PAISA: a fractional monetary unit in Bangladesh and India and Nepal and Pakistan
PAIUTE: 1. a member of either of two Shoshonean peoples (northern Paiute and southern Paiute) related to the Aztecs and living in the southwestern United States. 2. the Shoshonean language spoken by the Paiute. 
PAJAMA: 1. a pair of loose trousers tied by a drawstring around the waist; worn by men and women in some Asian countries. 2. (usually plural) loose-fitting nightclothes worn for sleeping or lounging; have a jacket top and trousers. 
PAL: become friends; act friendly towards
PALACE: 1. a large and stately mansion. 2. the governing group of a kingdom. 3. a large ornate exhibition hall. 4. official residence of an exalted person (as a sovereign). 
PALAIC: an Anatolian language
PALATE: the upper surface of the mouth that separates the oral and nasal cavities
PALAU: 1. a republic in the western central Pacific Ocean in association with the United States. 2. a chain of more than 200 islands about 400 miles long in the western central Pacific Ocean. 
PALE: 1. very light colored; highly diluted with white. 2. (of light) lacking in intensity or brightness; dim or feeble. 3. lacking in vitality or interest or effectiveness. 4. abnormally deficient in color as suggesting physical or emotional distress. 5. not full or rich. 
PALELY: in a pale manner; without physical or emotional color
PALI: an ancient Prakrit language (derived from Sanskrit) that is the scriptural and liturgical language of Theravada Buddhism
PALISH: slightly pale
PALL: 1. burial garment in which a corpse is wrapped. 2. become less interesting or attractive. 3. cover with a pall. 4. cause to become flat. 5. lose strength or effectiveness; become or appear boring, insipid, or tiresome (to). 
PALLAS: a large asteroid; the second asteroid to be discovered
PALLET: 1. a portable platform for storing or moving goods that are stacked on it. 2. a hand tool with a flat blade used by potters for mixing and shaping clay. 3. a mattress filled with straw or a pad made of quilts; used as a bed. 
PALM: 1. the inner surface of the hand from the wrist to the base of the fingers. 2. a linear unit based on the length or width of the human hand. 3. any plant of the family Palmae having an unbranched trunk crowned by large pinnate or palmate leaves. 
PALMAE: chiefly tropical trees and shrubs and vines usually having a tall columnar trunk bearing a crown of very large leaves; coextensive with the order Palmales
PALMAR: relating to the palm of the hand or the sole of the foot
PALSY: 1. a condition marked by uncontrollable tremor. 2. affect with palsy. 
PAMPAS: the vast grassy plains of northern Argentina
PAMPER: treat with excessive indulgence
PAN: 1. make a sweeping movement. 2. wash dirt in a pan to separate out the precious minerals. 3. express a totally negative opinion of. 4. chimpanzees; more closely related to Australopithecus than to other pongids. 
PANAMA: a republic on the Isthmus of Panama; achieved independence from Colombia in 1903
PANAX: perennial herbs of eastern North America and Asia having aromatic tuberous roots: ginseng
PANDER: arrange for sexual partners for others
PANE: sheet glass cut in shapes for windows or doors
PANEL: 1. decorate with panels. 2. (law) a group of people summoned for jury service (from whom a jury will be chosen). 3. a group of people gathered for a special purpose as to plan or discuss an issue or judge a contest etc. 4. a soft pad placed under a saddle. 
PANG: 1. a sudden sharp feeling. 2. a mental pain or distress. 3. a sharp spasm of pain. 
PANIC: 1. be overcome by a sudden fear. 2. cause sudden fear in or fill with sudden panic. 
PANINI: Indian grammarian whose grammatical rules for Sanskrit are the first known example of descriptive linguistics (circa 400 BC)
PANSY: large-flowered garden plant derived chiefly from the wild pansy of Europe and having velvety petals of various colors
PANT: 1. breathe noisily, as when one is exhausted. 2. utter while panting, as if out of breath. 
PANTIE: short underpants for women or children (usually used in the plural)
PANTO: an abbreviation of pantomime
PANTRY: a small storeroom for storing foods or wines
PANZER: an armored vehicle or tank
PAP: worthless or oversimplified ideas
PAPACY: the government of the Roman Catholic Church
PAPAYA: 1. tropical American shrub or small tree having huge deeply palmately cleft leaves and large oblong yellow fruit. 2. large oval melon-like tropical fruit with yellowish flesh. 
PAPAIN: a proteolytic enzyme obtained from the unripe papaya; used as a meat tenderizer
PAPAL: proceeding from or ordered by or subject to a pope or the papacy regarded as the successor of the Apostles
PAPAW: fruit with yellow flesh; related to custard apples
PAPER: 1. cover with paper. 2. a medium for written communication. 3. a scholarly article describing the results of observations or stating hypotheses. 
PAPERY: thin and paperlike
PAPIO: baboons
PAPIST: an offensive term for Roman Catholics; originally, a Roman Catholic who was a strong advocate of the papacy
PAPPUS: calyx composed of scales or bristles or featherlike hairs in plants of the Compositae such as thistles and dandelions
PAPUA: the southeastern part of Papua New Guinea
PAPUAN: 1. of or relating to Papua or its people or language. 2. any of the indigenous languages spoken in Papua New Guinea or New Britain or the Solomon Islands that are not Malayo-Polynesian languages. 
PAPULE: a small inflamed elevation of skin that is nonsuppurative (as in chicken pox)
PAR: make a score (on a hole) equal to par
PARA: 1. 100 para equal 1 dinar in Yugoslavia. 2. an estuary in northern Brazil into which the Tocantins River flows. 
PARADE: 1. walk ostentatiously. 2. march in a procession. 3. a visible display. 
PARANA: a South American river; tributary of Rio de la Plata
PARANG: a stout straight knife used in Malaysia and Indonesia
PARAPH: a flourish added after or under your signature (originally to protect against forgery)
PARCEL: 1. cover with strips of canvas. 2. divide into parts. 3. make into a wrapped container. 
PARCH: cause to wither or parch from exposure to heat
PARDON: grant a pardon to
PARE: 1. decrease gradually or bit by bit. 2. remove the edges from and cut down to the desired size. 
PARENT: 1. a father or mother; one who begets or one who gives birth to or nurtures and raises a child; a relative who plays the role of guardian. 2. an organism (plant or animal) from which younger ones are obtained. 
PARER: 1. a manicurist who trims the fingernails. 2. a small sharp knife used in paring fruits or vegetables. 
PARETO: Italian sociologist and economist whose theories influenced the development of fascism in Italy (1848-1923)
PAREVE: containing no meat or milk (or their derivatives) and thus eatable with both meat and dairy dishes according to the dietary laws of Judaism
PARGET: apply ornamental plaster to
PARING: 1. a thin fragment or slice (especially of wood) that has been shaved from something. 2. (usually plural) a part of a fruit or vegetable that is pared or cut off; especially the skin or peel. 
PARIS: 1. the capital and largest city of France; and international center of culture and commerce. 2. sometimes placed in subfamily Trilliaceae. 3. (Greek mythology) the prince of Troy who abducted Helen from her husband Menelaus and provoked the Trojan War. 4. a town in northeastern Texas. 
PARISH: 1. a local church community. 2. the local subdivision of a diocese committed to one pastor. 
PARITY: 1. (obstetrics) the number of liveborn children a woman has delivered. 2. (mathematics) a relation between a pair of integers: if both integers are odd or both are even they have the same parity; if one is odd and the other is even they have different parity. 3. (physics) parity is conserved in a universe in which the laws of physics are the same in a right-handed system of coordinates as in a left-handed system. 4. functional equality. 
PARK: 1. place temporarily. 2. maneuver a vehicle into a parking space. 3. Scottish explorer in Africa (1771-1806). 4. a gear position that acts as a parking brake. 
PARKA: a kind of heavy jacket (`windcheater' is a British term)
PARKED: that have been left
PARLAY: stake winnings from one bet on a subsequent wager
PARLEY: discuss, as between enemies
PARLOR: reception room in an inn or club where visitors can be received
PARODY: 1. make a spoof of or make fun of. 2. humorous or satirical mimicry. 
PAROLE: 1. release a criminal from detention and place him on parole. 2. (law) a conditional release from imprisonment that entitles the person to serve the remainder of the sentence outside the prison as long as the terms of release are complied with. 
PAROUS: having given birth to one or more viable children
PARR: 1. Queen of England as the 6th wife of Henry VIII (1512-1548). 2. a young salmon up to 2 years old. 3. the young of various fishes. 
PARRY: impede the movement of (an opponent or a ball)
PARROT: 1. repeat mindlessly. 2. a copycat who does not understand the words or acts being imitated. 
PARSE: analyze syntactically by assigning a constituent structure to (a sentence)
PARSEC: a unit of astronomical length based on the distance from Earth at which stellar parallax is 1 second of arc; equivalent to 3.262 light years
PARSEE: a member of a monotheistic sect of Zoroastrian origin; descended from the Persians; now found in western India
PARSER: a computer program that divides code up into functional components
PART: 1. something determined in relation to something that includes it. 2. something less than the whole of a human artifact. 3. a portion of a natural object. 4. that which concerns a person with regard to a particular role or situation. 5. one of the portions into which something is regarded as divided and which together constitute a whole. 6. a line of scalp that can be seen when sections of hair are combed in opposite directions. 7. the melody carried by a particular voice or instrument in polyphonic music. 
PARTED: having a margin incised almost to the base so as to create distinct divisions or lobes
PARTY: 1. have or participate in a party. 2. a group of people gathered together for pleasure. 3. a band of people associated temporarily in some activity. 4. an occasion on which people can assemble for social interaction and entertainment. 5. a person involved in legal proceedings. 
PARTS: the local environment
PARUS: type genus of the family Paridae
PARVIS: a courtyard or portico in front of a building (especially a cathedral)
PAS: (ballet) a step in dancing (especially in classical ballet)
PASCAL: 1. a unit of pressure equal to one newton per square meter. 2. French mathematician and philosopher and Jansenist; invented an adding machine; contributed (with Fermat) to the theory of probability (1623-1662). 3. a programing language designed to teach programming through a top-down modular approach. 
PASCH: 1. the Jewish feast of the Passover. 2. the Christian festival of Easter. 
PASHA: a civil or military authority in Turkey or Egypt
PASHTO: an Iranian language spoken in Afghanistan and Pakistan; the official language of Afghanistan
PASS: 1. (military) a written leave of absence. 2. (American football) a play that involves one player throwing the ball to a teammate. 3. the location in a range of mountains of a geological formation that is lower than the surrounding peaks. 4. place into the hands or custody of. 5. a document indicating permission to do something without restrictions. 6. travel past. 7. a bad or difficult situation or state of affairs. 8. go unchallenged; be approved. 9. one complete cycle of operations (as by a computer). 10. a permit to enter or leave a military installation. 11. a complimentary ticket. 12. (sports) the act of throwing the ball to another member of your team. 13. go across or through. 14. go successfully through a test or a selection process. 15. accept or judge as acceptable. 16. allow to go without comment or censure. 17. transfer to another; of rights or property. 18. throw (a ball) to another player. 19. cause to pass. 
PASSER: 1. a person who passes as a member of a different ethnic or racial group. 2. a student who passes an examination. 3. (football) a ball carrier who tries to gain ground by throwing a forward pass. 4. type genus of the Passeridae. 
PASSIM: used to refer to cited works
PAST: 1. earlier than the present time; no longer current. 2. of a person who has held and relinquished a position or office. 3. a verb tense that expresses actions or states in the past. 
PASTA: 1. a dish that contains pasta as its main ingredient. 2. shaped and dried dough made from flour and water and sometimes egg. 
PASTE: 1. any mixture of a soft and malleable consistency. 2. hit with the fists. 3. cover the surface of. 
PASTEL: 1. lacking in body or vigor. 2. delicate and pale in color. 
PASTER: a workman who pastes
PASTY: 1. resembling paste in color; pallid. 2. (usually used in the plural) one of a pair of adhesive patches worn to cover the nipples of exotic dancers and striptease performers. 
PASTIS: similar to absinthe but containing no wormwood
PASTOR: only the rose-colored starlings; in some classifications considered a separate genus
PASTRY: 1. a dough of flour and water and shortening. 2. any of various baked foods made of dough or batter. 
PAT: 1. completely or perfectly. 2. exactly suited to the occasion. 
PATACA: the basic unit of money in Macao
PATAS: reddish long-tailed monkey of west Africa
PATCH: 1. mend by putting a patch on. 2. a short set of commands to correct a bug in a computer program. 3. to join or unite the pieces of. 4. provide with a patch; also used metaphorically. 
PATCHY: irregular or uneven in quality, texture, etc.
PATE: 1. liver or meat or fowl finely minced or ground and variously seasoned. 2. the top of the head. 
PATENT: 1. (of a bodily tube or passageway) open; affording free passage. 2. grant rights to; grant a patent for. 3. make open to sight or notice. 
PATER: an informal use of the Latin word for father; sometimes used by British schoolboys or used facetiously
PATH: 1. a way especially designed for a particular use. 2. an established line of travel or access. 3. a line or route along which something travels or moves. 
PATHAN: 1. a member of the mountain people living in the eastern regions of Afghanistan. 2. an ethnic minority speaking Pashto and living in northwestern Pakistan and southeastern Afghanistan. 
PATHOS: 1. a quality that arouses emotions (especially pity or sorrow). 2. a style that has the power to evoke feelings. 
PATINA: a fine coating of oxide on the surface of a metal
PATIO: usually paved outdoor area adjoining a residence
PATOIS: a regional dialect of a language (especially French); usually considered substandard
PATON: South African writer (1903-1988)
PATRAS: a port city in western Greece in the northwestern Peloponnese on an inlet of the Ionian Sea; was a major trade center from the 5th century BC to the 3rd century BC; commercial importance revived during the Middle Ages
PATROL: 1. maintain the security of by carrying out a patrol. 2. the activity of going around or through an area at regular intervals for security purposes. 3. a group that goes through a region at regular intervals for the purpose of security. 
PATRON: 1. a regular customer. 2. the proprietor of an inn. 3. someone who supports or champions something. 
PATTER: make light, rapid and repeated sounds
PATTY: 1. small flat mass of chopped food. 2. small pie or pasty. 3. round flat candy. 
PATWIN: 1. a member of the North American Indian people living in the Sacramento valley in California. 2. a Copehan language spoken by the Patwin. 
PATZER: a poor chess player
PAUPER: a person who is very poor
PAUSE: 1. a time interval during which there is a temporary cessation of something. 2. cease an action temporarily. 
PAVAGE: a tax toward paving streets
PAVANE: 1. music composed for dancing the pavane. 2. a stately court dance of the 16th and 17th centuries. 
PAVE: cover with a material such as stone or concrete to make suitable for vehicle traffic
PAVED: covered with a firm surface
PAVING: 1. material used to pave an area. 2. the act of applying paving materials to an area. 
PAVIOR: a machine for laying pavement
PAVIS: (Middle Ages) a large heavy oblong shield protecting the whole body; originally carried but sometimes set up in permanent position
PAVLOV: Russian physiologist who observed conditioned salivary responses in dogs (1849-1936)
PAVO: 1. a small constellation near the South Pole between Tucana and Ara. 2. peafowl. 
PAW: 1. scrape with the paws. 2. touch clumsily. 
PAWER: a person who handles or caresses in a clumsy or overfamiliar manner
PAWKY: cunning and sly
PAWL: a hinged catch that fits into a notch of a ratchet to move a wheel forward or prevent it from moving backward
PAWN: 1. leave as a guarantee in return for money. 2. (chess) the least powerful piece; moves only forward and captures only to the side; it can be promoted to a more powerful piece if it reaches the 8th rank. 3. borrowing and leaving an article as security for repayment of the loan. 
PAWPAW: small tree native to the eastern United States having oblong leaves and fleshy fruit
PAX: (Roman Catholic Church) a greeting signifying Christian love for those assisting at the Eucharist
PEA: 1. seed of a pea plant used for food. 2. the fruit or seed of a pea plant. 3. a leguminous plant of the genus Pisum with small white flowers and long green pods containing edible green seeds. 
PEACE: 1. the state prevailing during the absence of war. 2. harmonious relations; freedom from disputes. 3. the absence of mental stress or anxiety. 4. the general security of public places. 5. a treaty to cease hostilities. 
PEACH: 1. cultivated in temperate regions. 2. downy juicy fruit with sweet yellowish or whitish flesh. 
PEACHY: of something resembling a peach in color
PEAHEN: female peafowl
PEAK: the top or extreme point of something (usually a mountain or hill)
PEAKED: having or rising to a peak
PEAKY: having or as if having especially high-pitched spots
PEAL: ring recurrently
PEANUT: 1. underground pod of the peanut vine. 2. widely cultivated American plant cultivated in tropical and warm regions; showy yellow flowers on stalks that bend over to the soil so that seed pods ripen underground. 3. a young child who is small for his age. 4. pod of the peanut vine containing usually 2 nuts or seeds; `groundnut' and `monkey nut' are British terms. 
PEAR: 1. sweet juicy gritty-textured fruit available in many varieties. 2. Old World tree having sweet gritty-textured juicy fruit; widely cultivated in many varieties. 
PEARL: gather pearls, from oysters in the ocean
PEARLY: of a white the color of pearls
PEAT: partially carbonized vegetable matter saturated with water; can be used as a fuel when dried
PEATY: of or pertaining to or of the nature of peat
PEAVEY: a stout lever with a sharp spike; used for handling logs
PEBA: having nine hinged bands of bony plates; ranges from Texas to Paraguay
PEBBLE: a small smooth rounded rock
PECAN: 1. wood of a pecan tree. 2. tree of southern United States and Mexico cultivated for its nuts. 3. smooth brown oval nut of south central United States. 
PECK: 1. eat by pecking at, like a bird. 2. a United States dry measure equal to 8 quarts or 537.605 cubic inches. 3. hit lightly with a picking motion. 
PECOS: a tributary of the Rio Grande that flows southeastward from New Mexico through western Texas
PECTIC: of or relating to or derived from pectin
PECTIN: any of various water-soluble colloidal carbohydrates that occur in ripe fruit and vegetables; used in making fruit jellies and jams
PEDAL: 1. operate the pedals on a keyboard instrument. 2. of or relating to the feet. 
PEDANT: a person who pays more attention to formal rules and book learning than they merit
PEDATE: 1. of a leaf shape; having radiating lobes, each deeply cleft or divided. 2. having or resembling a foot. 
PEDDLE: sell or offer for sale from place to place
PEEING: informal terms for urination
PEEK: a secret look
PEEL: 1. British politician (1788-1850). 2. the rind of a fruit or vegetable. 
PEELER: 1. a worker who peels the skins from fruits and vegetables. 2. a device for peeling vegetables or fruits. 
PEEN: the part of a hammerhead opposite the flat striking surface (may have various shapes)
PEEP: 1. look furtively. 2. cause to appear. 3. make high-pitched sounds. 4. speak in a hesitant and high-pitched tone of voice. 5. appear as though from hiding. 
PEEPER: 1. an informal term referring to the eye. 2. an animal that makes short high-pitched sounds. 
PEER: 1. look searchingly. 2. a nobleman (duke or marquis or earl or viscount or baron) who is a member of the British peerage. 
PEEVE: cause to be annoyed, irritated, or resentful
PEG: 1. a wooden pin pushed or driven into a surface. 2. pierce with a wooden pin or knock or thrust a wooden pin into. 3. stabilize (the price of a commodity or an exchange rate) by legislation or market operations. 4. regulator that can be turned to regulate the pitch of the strings of a stringed instrument. 5. a holder attached to the gunwale of a boat that holds the oar in place and acts as a fulcrum for rowing. 6. fasten or secure with a wooden pin. 
PELEUS: a king of the Myrmidons and father of Achilles
PELHAM: a bit with a bar mouthpiece that is designed to combine a curb and snaffle
PELLET: a small sphere
PELT: cast, hurl, or throw repeatedly with some missile
PELTER: a thrower of missiles
PELUDO: Argentine armadillo with six movable bands and hairy underparts
PELVIC: of or relating to the pelvis
PELVIS: 1. the structure of the vertebrate skeleton supporting the lower limbs in humans and the hind limbs or corresponding parts in other vertebrates. 2. a structure shaped like a funnel in the outlet of the kidney into which urine is discharged before passing into the ureter. 
PEN: 1. a writing implement with a point from which ink flows. 2. an enclosure for confining livestock. 3. female swan. 
PENAL: 1. of or relating to punishment. 2. serving as or designed to impose punishment. 3. subject to punishment by law. 
PENCIL: 1. write, draw, or trace with a pencil. 2. graphite (or a similar substance) used in such a way as to be a medium of communication. 3. a figure formed by a set of straight lines or light rays meeting at a point. 4. a cosmetic in a long thin stick; designed to be applied to a particular part of the face. 
PENEUS: type genus of the family Peneidae
PENGO: 1. formerly the basic unit of money in Hungary until it was replaced by the forint in 1946. 2. a Dravidian language spoken in south central India. 
PENILE: of or relating to the penis
PENIS: the male organ of copulation (`member' is a euphemism)
PENN: Englishman and Quaker who founded the colony of Pennsylvania (1644-1718)
PENNI: 100 pennia formerly equaled 1 markka in Finland
PENNY: 1. a fractional monetary unit of Ireland and the United Kingdom; equal to one hundredth of a pound. 2. a coin worth one-hundredth of the value of the basic unit. 
PENNON: wing of a bird
PENT: closely confined
PENULT: the next to last syllable in a word
PEONY: any of numerous plants widely cultivated for their showy single or double red or pink or white flowers
PEOPLE: 1. fill with people. 2. members of a family line. 3. furnish with people. 
PEORIA: a city in central Illinois on the Illinois River
PEP: liveliness and energy
PEPIN: king of the Franks and father of Charlemagne who defended papal interests and founded the Carolingian dynasty in 751 (714-768)
PEPYS: English diarist whose diary contained detailed descriptions of 17th century disasters in England (1633-1703)
PEPLOS: a garment worn by women in ancient Greece; cloth caught at the shoulders and draped in folds to the waist
PEPLUM: a flared ruffle attached to the waistline of a dress or jacket or blouse
PEPPER: 1. add pepper to. 2. pungent seasoning from the berry of the common pepper plant of East India; use whole or ground. 3. sweet and hot varieties of fruits of plants of the genus Capsicum. 4. attack and bombard with or as if with missiles. 
PEPSI: Pepsi Cola is a trademarked cola
PEPSIN: an enzyme produced in the stomach that splits proteins into peptones
PEPTIC: relating to or promoting digestion
PERCA: type genus of the Percidae
PERCH: 1. sit, as on a branch. 2. a linear measure of 16.5 feet. 3. cause to perch or sit. 4. an elevated place serving as a seat. 5. any of numerous fishes of America and Europe. 6. spiny-finned freshwater food and game fishes. 7. any of numerous spiny-finned fishes of various families of the order Perciformes. 
PERDIX: a genus of Perdicinae
PERI: 1. a beautiful and graceful girl. 2. (Persian folklore) a supernatural being descended from fallen angels and excluded from paradise until penance is done. 
PERIOD: 1. the interval taken to complete one cycle of a regularly repeating phenomenon. 2. (ice hockey) one of three divisions into which play is divided in hockey games. 3. a unit of geological time during which a system of rocks formed. 4. the end or completion of something. 5. a punctuation mark (.) placed at the end of a declarative sentence to indicate a full stop or after abbreviations. 
PERM: give a permanent wave to
PERMED: styled with permanent waves
PERMIT: 1. large game fish; found in waters of the West Indies. 2. consent to, give permission. 
PERNIS: a common European bird of prey; dull brown with white-streaked underparts
PERNOD: (registered trademark) a liqueur flavored with anise
PERON: Argentine soldier who became president of Argentina (1895-1974)
PERSEA: avocado
PERSIA: an empire in southern Asia created by Cyrus the Great in the 6th century BC and destroyed by Alexander the Great in the 4th century BC
PERSON: 1. a human being. 2. a human body (usually including the clothing). 3. a grammatical category used in the classification of pronouns, possessive determiners, and verb forms according to whether they indicate the speaker, the addressee, or a third party. 
PERTH: the state capital of Western Australia
PERU: a republic in western South America; achieved independence from Spain in 1821; was the heart of the Inca empire from the 12th to 16th centuries
PERUSE: examine or consider with attention and in detail
PERUTZ: English biochemist (born in Austria); studied the molecular structure of blood (1914-2002)
PESETA: formerly the basic unit of money in Spain; equal to 100 centimos
PESEWA: 100 pesewas equal 1 cedi in Ghana
PEST: 1. a persistently annoying person. 2. any unwanted and destructive insect or other animal that attacks food or crops or livestock etc.. 
PESTLE: 1. a heavy tool of stone or iron (usually with a flat base and a handle) that is used to grind and mix material (as grain or drugs or pigments) against a slab of stone. 2. a club-shaped hand tool for grinding and mixing substances in a mortar. 3. grind, mash or pulverize in a mortar. 
PESTO: a sauce typically served with pasta; contains crushed basil leaves and garlic and pine nuts and Parmesan cheese in olive oil
PET: 1. stroke or caress gently. 2. a fit of petulance or sulkiness (especially at what is felt to be a slight). 3. stroke or caress in an erotic manner, as during lovemaking. 
PETAL: part of the perianth that is usually brightly colored
PETARD: an explosive device used to break down a gate or wall
PETITE: a garment size for short or slender women
PETREL: relatively small long-winged tube-nosed bird that flies far from land
PETTER: a lover who gently fondles and caresses the loved one
PETTY: contemptibly narrow in outlook
PEW: long bench with backs; used in church by the congregation
PEWEE: small olive-colored woodland flycatchers of eastern North America
PEWTER: any of various alloys of tin with small amounts of other metals (especially lead)
PEZIZA: type genus of the Pezizaceae: a variety of cup fungus
PHASE: 1. arrange in phases or stages. 2. adjust so as to be in a synchronized condition. 3. a particular point in the time of a cycle; measured from some arbitrary zero and expressed as an angle. 4. (astronomy) the particular appearance of a body's state of illumination (especially one of the recurring shapes of the part of Earth's moon that is illuminated by the sun). 
PHENOL: any of a class of weakly acidic organic compounds; molecule contains one or more hydroxyl groups
PHIAL: a small bottle that contains a drug (especially a sealed sterile container for injection by needle)
PHYLE: a tribe of ancient Athenians
PHYLLO: tissue thin sheets of pastry used especially in Greek dishes
PHYLUM: 1. (linguistics) a large group of languages that are historically related. 2. (biology) the major taxonomic group of animals and plants; contains classes. 
PHYSA: any member of the genus Physa
PHLEGM: expectorated matter; saliva mixed with discharges from the respiratory passages; in ancient and medieval physiology it was believed to cause sluggishness
PHLEUM: grasses native to temperate regions
PHLOEM: (botany) tissue that conducts synthesized food substances (e.g., from leaves) to parts where needed; consists primarily of sieve tubes
PHLOX: any polemoniaceous plant of the genus Phlox; chiefly North American; cultivated for their clusters of flowers
PHOBIA: an anxiety disorder characterized by extreme and irrational fear of simple things or social situations
PHOBIC: suffering from irrational fears
PHOBOS: the larger of the two satellites of Mars
PHOCA: type genus of the Phocidae: earless seals
PHOEBE: 1. (Greek mythology) a Titaness who became identified with Artemis as goddess of the Moon. 2. small dun-colored North American flycatcher. 
PHOLAS: type genus of the family Pholadidae: piddocks
PHON: a unit of subjective loudness
PHONE: (phonetics) an individual sound unit of speech without concern as to whether or not it is a phoneme of some language
PHONIC: 1. pertaining to the phonic method of teaching reading. 2. relating to speech. 
PHOT: a unit of illumination equal to 1 lumen per square centimeter; 10,000 phots equal 1 lux
PHOTIC: of or relating to or caused by light
PHOTON: a quantum of electromagnetic radiation; an elementary particle that is its own antiparticle
PHRASE: 1. an expression consisting of one or more words forming a grammatical constituent of a sentence. 2. divide, combine, or mark into phrases. 3. dance movements that are linked in a single choreographic sequence. 
PIA: perennial herb of East Indies to Polynesia and Australia; cultivated for its large edible root yielding Otaheite arrowroot starch
PIAFFE: a cadenced trot executed by the horse in one spot
PIAGET: Swiss psychologist remembered for his studies of cognitive development in children (1896-1980)
PIANO: 1. used as a direction in music; to be played relatively softly. 2. (music) low loudness. 
PICA: 1. an eating disorder, frequent in children, in which non-nutritional objects are eaten persistently. 2. magpies. 
PICEA: a genus of temperate and Arctic evergreen trees (see spruce)
PICHI: Peruvian shrub with small pink to lavender tubular flowers; leaves yield a tonic and diuretic
PICK: 1. remove in small bits. 2. a thin sharp implement used for removing unwanted material. 3. pilfer or rob. 4. a basketball maneuver; obstructing an opponent with one's body. 5. select carefully from a group. 6. look for and gather. 7. provoke. 8. attack with or as if with a pickaxe of ice or rocky ground, for example. 
PICKER: 1. a person who chooses or selects out. 2. someone who gathers crops or fruits etc.. 
PICKET: 1. fasten with a picket. 2. a protester posted by a labor organization outside a place of work. 3. a vehicle performing sentinel duty. 4. a wooden strip forming part of a fence. 5. a form of military punishment used by the British in the late 17th century in which a soldier was forced to stand on one foot on a pointed stake. 6. serve as pickets or post pickets. 
PICKLE: preserve in a pickling liquid
PICKUP: 1. a light truck with an open body and low sides and a tailboard. 2. a warrant to take someone into custody. 3. anything with restorative powers. 4. a casual acquaintance; often made in hope of sexual relationships. 5. the attribute of being capable of rapid acceleration. 6. the act or process of picking up or collecting from various places. 7. the act of taking aboard passengers or freight. 
PICNIC: 1. any informal meal eaten outside or on an excursion. 2. eat alfresco, in the open air. 
PICOT: an edging of small loops, as on lace or ribbon
PICRIS: genus of weedy Old World yellow-flowered herbs usually containing a bitter-tasting substance: bitterweed
PICTOR: a constellation in the southern hemisphere near Dorado and Columba
PICUL: a unit of weight used in some parts of Asia; approximately equal to 133 pounds (the load a grown man can carry)
PICUS: type genus of Picidae
PIDDLE: waste time; spend one's time idly or inefficiently
PIDGIN: an artificial language used for trade between speakers of different languages
PYDNA: a major victory by the Romans over the Macedonians in 168 BC; resulted in the downfall of the ancient Macedonian kingdom
PIE: dish baked in pastry-lined pan often with a pastry top
PIECE: 1. a separate part of a whole. 2. an item that is an instance of some type; . 3. repair by adding pieces. 4. an artistic or literary composition. 5. a serving that has been cut from a larger portion. 6. a distance. 7. join during spinning. 
PYEMIA: septicemia caused by pus-forming bacteria being released from an abscess
PYEMIC: of or relating to pyemia
PIER: 1. a platform built out from the shore into the water and supported by piles; provides access to ships and boats. 2. (architecture) a vertical supporting structure (as a portion of wall between two doors or windows). 3. a support for two adjacent bridge spans. 
PIERCE: 1. cut or make a way through. 2. move or affect (a person's emotions or bodily feelings) deeply or sharply. 3. sound sharply or shrilly. 4. penetrate or cut through with a sharp instrument. 5. make a hole into. 
PIERID: any of numerous pale-colored butterflies having three pairs of well-developed legs
PIERIS: 1. decorative evergreen shrubs of woody vines. 2. type genus of the Pieridae. 
PIERRE: capital of the state of South Dakota; located in central South Dakota on the Missouri river
PIETA: a representation of the Virgin Mary mourning over the dead body of Jesus
PIETY: righteousness by virtue of being pious
PIFFLE: act in a trivial or ineffective way
PIG: 1. a crude block of metal (lead or iron) poured from a smelting furnace. 2. live like a pig, in squalor. 
PIGEON: wild and domesticated birds having a heavy body and short legs
PIGLET: a young pig
PYGMY: 1. an unusually small individual. 2. any member of various peoples having an average height of less than five feet. 
PIGNUT: an American hickory tree having bitter nuts
PIKA: small short-eared burrowing mammal of rocky uplands of Asia and western North America
PIKE: 1. highly valued northern freshwater fish with lean flesh. 2. a sharp point (as on the end of a spear). 3. medieval weapon consisting of a spearhead attached to a long pole or pikestaff; superseded by the bayonet. 4. any of several elongate long-snouted freshwater game and food fishes widely distributed in cooler parts of the northern hemisphere. 
PILAF: rice cooked in well-seasoned broth with onions or celery and usually poultry or game or shellfish and sometimes tomatoes
PILAR: of or relating to a hair
PILATE: the Roman procurator of Judea who ordered that Jesus be crucified (died in AD 36)
PILE: 1. a collection of objects laid on top of each other. 2. place or lay as if in a pile. 3. a column of wood or steel or concrete that is driven into the ground to provide support for a structure. 4. the yarn (as in a rug or velvet or corduroy) that stands up from the weave. 
PILEA: low-growing tropical perennials grown for their stingless foliage
PILEUP: multiple collisions of vehicles
PILFER: make off with belongings of others
PILL: 1. something that resembles a tablet of medicine in shape or size. 2. a dose of medicine in the form of a small pellet. 3. a unpleasant or tiresome person. 4. something unpleasant or offensive that must be tolerated or endured. 5. a contraceptive in the form of a pill containing estrogen and progestin to inhibit ovulation and so prevent conception. 
PILLAR: 1. a fundamental principle or practice. 2. a prominent supporter. 
PILLOW: rest on or as if on a pillow
PYLON: 1. a tower for guiding pilots or marking the turning point in a race. 2. a large vertical steel tower supporting high-tension power lines. 
PILOT: 1. someone who is licensed to operate an aircraft in flight. 2. a person qualified to guide ships through difficult waters going into or out of a harbor. 
PILOUS: covered with hairs especially fine soft ones
PILSEN: a town in Czech Republic where Pilsner beer originated
PILUS: hairlike structure especially on the surface of a cell or microorganism
PIMA: 1. a member of the North American Indian people living in southern Arizona and northern Mexico. 2. the Uto-Aztecan language spoken by the Pima. 
PIMP: someone who procures customers for whores (in England they call a pimp a ponce)
PIMPLE: a small inflamed elevation of the skin; a pustule or papule; common symptom in acne
PIN: 1. a piece of jewelry that is pinned onto the wearer's garment. 2. informal terms for the leg. 3. cylindrical tumblers consisting of two parts that are held in place by springs; when they are aligned with a key the bolt can be thrown. 4. flagpole used to mark the position of the hole on a golf green. 5. a small slender (often pointed) piece of wood or metal used to support or fasten or attach things. 6. attach or fasten with pins or as if with pins. 7. pierce with a pin. 8. immobilize a piece. 
PINATA: plaything consisting of a container filled with toys and candy; suspended from a height for blindfolded children to break with sticks
PINCER: a hand tool for holding consisting of a compound lever for grasping
PINCH: 1. squeeze tightly between the fingers. 2. an injury resulting from getting some body part squeezed. 3. a squeeze with the fingers. 4. irritate as if by a nip, pinch, or tear. 
PINCHE: South American tamarin with a tufted head
PINDAR: Greek lyric poet remembered for his odes (518?-438? BC)
PINE: 1. a coniferous tree. 2. straight-grained durable and often resinous white to yellowish timber of any of numerous trees of the genus Pinus. 
PINEAL: 1. relating to the pineal body. 2. having the form of a pine cone. 
PING: 1. hit with a pinging noise. 2. a sharp high-pitched resonant sound (as of a sonar echo or a bullet striking metal). 3. make a short high-pitched sound. 4. contact, usually in order to remind of something. 5. send a message from one computer to another to check whether it is reachable and active. 
PINGER: a pulse generator used for echo sounding in sonar
PINING: a feeling of deep longing
PINION: 1. bind the arms of. 2. cut the wings off (of birds). 
PINITE: grey or green or brown mineral similar to mica and containing aluminum and potassium sulphates
PINK: 1. of a light shade of red. 2. sound like a car engine that is firing too early. 3. cut in a zigzag pattern with pinking shears, in sewing. 
PINKO: a person with mildly leftist political views
PINNA: division of a usually pinnately divided leaf
PINNER: a woman's cap with two long flaps pinned on
PINOLE: meal made of finely ground corn mixed with sugar and spices
PINON: any of several low-growing pines of western North America
PINOT: any of several purple or white wine grapes used especially for Burgundies and champagnes
PINT: 1. a British imperial capacity measure (liquid or dry) equal to 4 gills or 568.26 cubic centimeters. 2. a United States dry unit equal to 0.5 quart or 33.6 cubic inches. 3. a United States liquid unit equal to 16 fluid ounces; two pints equal one quart. 
PINTER: English dramatist whose plays are characterized by silences and the use of inaction (born in 1930)
PINTLE: a pin or bolt forming the pivot of a hinge
PINTO: a spotted or calico horse or pony
PINUS: type genus of the Pinaceae: large genus of true pines
PION: a meson involved in holding the nucleus together; produced as the result of high-energy particle collision
PIOUS: having or showing or expressing reverence for a deity
PIP: 1. a disease of poultry. 2. a minor nonspecific ailment. 3. a small hard seed found in some fruits. 
PIPA: type genus of the Pipidae
PIPAGE: a fee charged for the use of pipes
PIPAL: fig tree of India noted for great size and longevity; lacks the prop roots of the banyan; regarded as sacred by Buddhists
PIPE: 1. a tube with a small bowl at one end; used for smoking tobacco. 2. transport by pipeline. 3. play on a pipe. 4. trim with piping. 
PIPER: 1. someone who plays the bagpipe. 2. type genus of the Piperaceae: large genus of chiefly climbing tropical shrubs. 
PIPET: measuring instrument consisting of a graduated glass tube used to measure or transfer precise volumes of a liquid by drawing the liquid up into the tube
PIPILE: genus of large crested guans (the piping guans)
PIPILO: towhees
PIPING: 1. (used of heat) extremely. 2. playing a pipe or the bagpipes. 
PIPIT: a songbird that lives mainly on the ground in open country; has streaky brown plumage
PIPPIN: any of numerous superior eating apples with yellow or greenish yellow skin flushed with red
PIPRA: type genus of the Pipridae containing the typical manakins
PIQUE: 1. cause to feel resentment or indignation. 2. a sudden outburst of anger. 
PIQUET: a card game for two players using a reduced pack of 32 cards
PIRACY: hijacking on the high seas or in similar contexts; taking a ship or plane away from the control of those who are legally entitled to it
PIRATE: 1. someone who robs at sea or plunders the land from the sea without having a commission from any sovereign nation. 2. a ship that is manned by pirates. 3. copy illegally; of published material. 
PYRE: wood heaped for burning a dead body as a funeral rite
PYRENE: 1. a pale yellow crystalline hydrocarbon C16H10 extracted from coal tar. 2. the small hard nutlet of a drupe or drupelet; the seed and the hard endocarp that surrounds it. 
PYREX: a borosilicate glass with a low coefficient of expansion; used for heat-resistant glassware in cooking and chemistry
PYRITE: a common mineral (iron disulfide) that has a pale yellow color
PIROGI: small fruit or meat turnover baked or fried
PYROPE: a deep red garnet used as a gemstone
PYRUS: fruit trees native to the Old World: pears
PISA: a city in Tuscany; site of the famous Leaning Tower
PISCES: 1. the twelfth sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about February 19 to March 20. 2. (astrology) a person who is born while the sun is in Pisces. 3. a large faint zodiacal constellation; between Aquarius and Aries. 4. a group of vertebrates comprising both cartilaginous and bony fishes and sometimes including the jawless vertebrates; not used technically. 
PISSER: 1. a person who urinates. 2. a very disagreeable difficulty. 
PISTE: 1. a flat rectangular area for fencing bouts. 2. a ski run densely packed with snow. 
PISTIA: pantropical floating plant forming a rosette of wedge-shaped leaves; a widespread weed in rivers and lakes
PISTIL: the female ovule-bearing part of a flower composed of ovary and style and stigma
PISTOL: a firearm that is held and fired with one hand
PISTON: 1. United States neoclassical composer (1894-1976). 2. mechanical device that has a plunging or thrusting motion. 
PISUM: small genus of variable annual Eurasian vines: peas
PIT: 1. set into opposition or rivalry. 2. a concavity in a surface (especially an anatomical depression). 3. an enclosure in which animals are made to fight. 4. (commodity exchange) the part of the floor of a commodity exchange where trading in a particular commodity is carried on. 5. (auto racing) an area at the side of a racetrack where the race cars are serviced and refueled. 6. a trap in the form of a concealed hole. 7. a surface excavation for extracting stone or slate. 8. remove the pits from. 
PITA: usually small round bread that can open into a pocket for filling
PITCH: 1. the property of sound that varies with variation in the frequency of vibration. 2. (baseball) the act of throwing a baseball by a pitcher to a batter. 3. fall or plunge forward. 4. degree of deviation from a horizontal plane. 5. any of various dark heavy viscid substances obtained as a residue. 6. a high approach shot in golf. 7. erect and fasten. 8. hit (a golf ball) in a high arc with a backspin. 9. set to a certain pitch. 10. lead (a card) and establish the trump suit. 
PITCHY: having the characteristics of pitch or tar
PITH: remove the pith from (a plant)
PITHY: concise and full of meaning
PYTHIA: (Greek mythology) the priestess of Apollo at Delphi who transmitted the oracles
PYTHON: 1. large Old World boas. 2. a soothsaying spirit or a person who is possessed by such a spirit. 3. (Greek mythology) dragon killed by Apollo at Delphi. 
PITY: an unfortunate development
PITMAN: English educator who invented a system of phonetic shorthand (1813-1897)
PITON: a metal spike with a hole for a rope; mountaineers drive it into ice or rock to use as a hold
PITSAW: a large two-handed saw formerly used to cut logs into planks; one man stood above the log and the other in a pit below
PITT: 1. a British playwright who created the fictional character Sweeney Todd (1799-1855). 2. English statesman and son of Pitt the Elder (1759-1806). 3. English statesman who brought the Seven Years' War to an end (1708-1778). 
PITTA: any bird of the genus Pitta; brilliantly colored chiefly terrestrial birds with short wings and tail and stout bills
PYURIA: presence of white blood cells in the urine; symptom of urinary tract infection
PIVOT: 1. turn on a pivot. 2. axis consisting of a short shaft that supports something that turns. 3. the act of turning on (or as if on) a pivot. 
PYX: 1. a chest in which coins from the mint are held to await assay. 2. any receptacle in which wafers for the Eucharist are kept. 
PIXEL: (computer science) the smallest discrete component of an image or picture on a CRT screen (usually a colored dot)
PYXIE: creeping evergreen shrub having narrow overlapping leaves and early white star-shaped flowers; of the pine barrens of New Jersey and the Carolinas
PYXIS: 1. a constellation in the southern hemisphere near Puppis and Antlia. 2. a small box used by ancient Greeks to hold medicines. 
PIZZA: Italian open pie made of thin bread dough spread with a spiced mixture of e.g. tomato sauce and cheese
PLACE: 1. place somebody in a particular situation or location. 2. an abstract mental location. 3. a general vicinity. 4. take a place in a competition; often followed by an ordinal. 5. proper or designated social situation. 6. identify the location or place of. 7. proper or appropriate position or location. 8. finish second or better in a horse or dog race. 9. to arrange for. 10. assign to (a job or a home). 11. estimate. 12. sing a note with the correct pitch. 
PLACED: put in position in relation to other things
PLACER: an alluvial deposit that contains particles of some valuable mineral
PLACID: (of a body of water) free from disturbance by heavy waves
PLAGE: the beach at a seaside resort
PLAGUE: 1. a serious (sometimes fatal) infection of rodents caused by Yersinia pestis and accidentally transmitted to humans by the bite of a flea that has bitten an infected animal. 2. any epidemic disease with a high death rate. 3. any large scale calamity (especially when thought to be sent by God). 4. an annoyance. 
PLAY: 1. participate in games or sport. 2. act or have an effect in a specified way or with a specific effect or outcome. 3. play on an instrument. 4. be at play; be engaged in playful activity; amuse oneself in a way characteristic of children. 5. replay (as a melody). 6. activity by children that is guided more by imagination than by fixed rules. 7. perform on a certain location. 8. behave in a certain way. 9. perform music on (a musical instrument). 10. move or seem to move quickly, lightly, or irregularly. 11. bet or wager (money). 12. engage in recreational activities rather than work; occupy oneself in a diversion. 13. pretend to be somebody in the framework of a game or playful activity. 14. emit recorded sound. 15. put (a card or piece) into play during a game, or act strategically as if in a card game. 16. engage in an activity as if it were a game rather than take it seriously. 17. cause to emit recorded audio or video. 18. use to one's advantage. 19. be received or accepted or interpreted in a specific way. 20. cause to move or operate freely within a bounded space. 21. be performed or presented for public viewing. 22. discharge or direct or be discharged or directed as if in a continuous stream. 23. make bets. 24. shoot or hit in a particular manner. 25. use or move. 26. employ in a game or in a specific position. 27. exhaust by allowing to pull on the line. 
PLAICE: 1. flesh of large European flatfish. 2. large European food fish. 
PLAYED: (of games) engaged in
PLAYER: 1. a person who participates in or is skilled at some game. 2. a person who pursues a number of different social and sexual partners simultaneously. 3. an important participant (as in a business deal). 
PLAIN: 1. extensive tract of level open land. 2. not elaborate or elaborated; simple. 3. lacking patterns especially in color. 4. not mixed with extraneous elements. 5. free from any effort to soften to disguise. 6. lacking embellishment or ornamentation. 
PLAINT: (United Kingdom) a written statement of the grounds of complaint made to court of law asking for the grievance to be redressed
PLAIT: weave into plaits
PLAN: 1. have the will and intention to carry out some action. 2. make or work out a plan for; devise. 3. make plans for something. 
PLANAR: involving two dimensions
PLANCK: German physicist whose explanation of blackbody radiation in the context of quantized energy emissions initiated quantum theory (1858-1947)
PLANE: 1. travel on the surface of water. 2. make even or smooth, with or as with a carpenter's plane. 3. a power tool for smoothing or shaping wood. 4. a carpenter's hand tool with an adjustable blade for smoothing or shaping wood. 5. cut or remove with or as if with a plane. 
PLANET: 1. (astronomy) any of the nine large celestial bodies in the solar system that revolve around the sun and shine by reflected light; Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto in order of their proximity to the sun; viewed from the constellation Hercules, all the planets rotate around the sun in a counterclockwise direction. 2. any celestial body (other than comets or satellites) that revolves around a star. 
PLANK: 1. set (something or oneself) down with or as if with a noise. 2. cover with planks. 3. cook and serve on a plank. 
PLANO: a city in northeastern Texas (suburb of Dallas)
PLANT: 1. put or set (seeds, seedlings, or plants) into the ground. 2. (botany) a living organism lacking the power of locomotion. 3. an actor situated in the audience whose acting is rehearsed but seems spontaneous to the audience. 4. place into a river. 5. place something or someone in a certain position in order to secretly observe or deceive. 6. put firmly in the mind. 
PLAQUE: (pathology) a small abnormal patch on or inside the body
PLASMA: 1. the colorless watery fluid of the blood and lymph that contains no cells, but in which the blood cells (erythrocytes, leukocytes, and thrombocytes) are suspended. 2. a green slightly translucent variety of chalcedony used as a gemstone. 3. (physical chemistry) a fourth state of matter distinct from solid or liquid or gas and present in stars and fusion reactors; a gas becomes a plasma when it is heated until the atoms lose all their electrons, leaving a highly electrified collection of nuclei and free electrons. 
PLAT: make a plat of
PLATE: 1. a sheet of metal or wood or glass or plastic. 2. a full-page illustration (usually on slick paper). 3. dish on which food is served or from which food is eaten. 4. the quantity contained in a plate. 5. a rigid layer of the Earth's crust that is believed to drift slowly. 6. the thin under portion of the forequarter. 7. a main course served on a plate. 8. any flat platelike body structure or part. 9. the positively charged electrode in a vacuum tube. 10. a flat sheet of metal or glass on which a photographic image can be recorded. 11. structural member consisting of a horizontal beam that provides bearing and anchorage. 12. a shallow receptacle for collection in church. 13. a metal sheathing of uniform thickness (such as the shield attached to an artillery piece to protect the gunners). 14. coat with a layer of metal. 
PLATEN: 1. work table of a machine tool. 2. the flat plate of a printing press that presses the paper against the type. 3. the roller on a typewriter against which the keys strike. 
PLATER: a skilled worker who coats articles with a film of metal (usually silver or gold)
PLATY: small stocky Mexican fish; popular aquarium fish
PLATO: ancient Athenian philosopher; pupil of Socrates; teacher of Aristotle (428-347 BC)
PLATTE: a river in Nebraska that flows eastward to become a tributary of the Missouri River
PLAZA: 1. a public square with room for pedestrians. 2. mercantile establishment consisting of a carefully landscaped complex of shops representing leading merchandisers; usually includes restaurants and a convenient parking area; a modern version of the traditional marketplace. 
PLEA: 1. (law) a defendant's answer by a factual matter (as distinguished from a demurrer). 2. an answer indicating why a suit should be dismissed. 
PLEACH: interlace the shoots of
PLEAD: 1. appeal or request earnestly. 2. offer as an excuse or plea. 3. enter a plea, as in courts of law. 4. make an allegation in an action or other legal proceeding, especially answer the previous pleading of the other party by denying facts therein stated or by alleging new facts. 
PLEASE: 1. used in polite request. 2. be the will of or have the will (to). 3. give satisfaction. 
PLEAT: 1. any of various types of fold formed by doubling fabric back upon itself and then pressing or stitching into shape. 2. fold into pleats, "Pleat the cloth". 
PLEDGE: 1. promise solemnly and formally. 2. pay (an amount of money) as a contribution to a charity or service, especially at regular intervals. 3. a drink in honor of or to the health of a person or event. 4. give as a guarantee. 5. bind or secure by a pledge. 
PLENTY: a full supply
PLENUM: 1. a meeting of a legislative body at which all members are present. 2. an enclosed space in which the air pressure is higher than outside. 
PLEURA: the thin serous membrane around the lungs and inner walls of the chest
PLEVNA: the town was taken from the Turks by the Russians in 1877 after a siege of 143 days
PLEXOR: (medicine) a small hammer with a rubber head used in percussive examinations of the chest and in testing reflexes
PLEXUS: a network of intersecting blood vessels or intersecting nerves or intersecting lymph vessels
PLY: 1. one of the strands twisted together to make yarn or rope or thread; often used in combination. 2. apply oneself diligently. 3. travel a route regularly. 4. join together as by twisting, weaving, or molding. 5. wield vigorously. 6. use diligently. 
PLIER: someone who plies a trade
PLIERS: a gripping hand tool with two hinged arms and (usually) serrated jaws
PLIGHT: a solemn pledge of fidelity
PLINY: 1. Roman writer and nephew of Pliny the Elder; author of books of letters that commented on affairs of the day (62-113). 2. Roman author of an encyclopedic natural history; died while observing the eruption of Vesuvius (23-79). 
PLOCE: (rhetoric) repetition to gain special emphasis or extend meaning
PLOY: a maneuver in a game or conversation
PLONK: 1. a cheap wine of inferior quality. 2. the noise of something dropping (as into liquid). 
PLOP: 1. with a short hollow thud. 2. drop with the sound of something falling into water. 
PLOT: 1. plan secretly, usually something illegal. 2. a small area of ground covered by specific vegetation. 3. the story that is told in a novel or play or movie etc.. 4. devise the sequence of events in (a literary work or a play, movie, or ballet). 
PLOVER: any of numerous chiefly shorebirds of relatively compact build having straight bills and large pointed wings; closely related to the sandpipers
PLOW: 1. to break and turn over earth especially with a plow. 2. move in a way resembling that of a plow cutting into or going through the soil. 
PLOWED: (of farmland) broken and turned over with a plow
PLUCK: 1. the act of pulling and releasing a taut cord. 2. pull or pull out sharply. 3. pull lightly but sharply with a plucking motion. 4. strip of feathers. 
PLUG: 1. fill or close tightly with or as if with a plug. 2. insert a plug into. 3. persist in working hard. 4. make a plug for; praise the qualities or in order to sell or promote. 5. insert as a plug. 
PLUM: 1. any of several trees producing edible oval fruit having a smooth skin and a single hard stone. 2. any of numerous varieties of small to medium-sized round or oval fruit having a smooth skin and a single pit. 3. a highly desirable position or assignment. 
PLUMB: 1. exactly vertical. 2. conforming to the direction of a plumb line. 3. exactly. 4. adjust with a plumb line so as to make vertical. 
PLUME: 1. anything that resembles a feather in shape or lightness. 2. a feather or cluster of feathers worn as an ornament. 3. deck with a plume. 4. form a plume. 
PLUMED: having or covered with or abounding in plumes
PLUMMY: 1. very desirable. 2. (of a voice) affectedly mellow and rich. 
PLUMP: 1. straight down especially heavily or abruptly. 2. give support (to) or make a choice (of) one out of a group or number. 
PLUNGE: 1. a steep and rapid fall. 2. dash violently or with great speed or impetuosity. 3. begin with vigor. 4. cause to be immersed. 5. fall abruptly. 
PLUNK: 1. a hollow twanging sound. 2. (baseball) hitting a baseball so that it drops suddenly. 
PLURAL: 1. composed of more than one member, set, or kind. 2. grammatical number category referring to two or more items or units. 
PLUS: 1. on the positive side or higher end of a scale. 2. involving advantage or good. 
PLUSH: a fabric with a nap that is longer and softer than velvet
PLUSHY: (of textures) resembling plush
PLUTO: 1. a cartoon character created by Walt Disney. 2. (Greek mythology) the god of the underworld in ancient mythology; brother of Zeus and husband of Persephone. 3. a small planet and the farthest known planet from the sun; it has the most elliptical orbit of all the planets. 
POA: chiefly perennial grasses of cool temperate regions
POACH: 1. hunt illegally. 2. cook in a simmering liquid. 
POCK: a pustule in an eruptive disease
POCKED: 1. used of paved surfaces having holes or pits. 2. marked by or as if by smallpox or acne or other eruptive skin disease. 
POCKET: 1. put in one's pocket. 2. a supply of money. 3. (bowling) the space between the headpin and the pins behind it on the right or left. 4. a small isolated group of people. 5. an opening at the corner or on the side of a billiard table into which billiard balls are struck. 6. take unlawfully. 
POD: 1. take something out of its shell or pod. 2. produce pods, of plants. 3. a group of aquatic mammals. 4. a detachable container of fuel on an airplane. 
PODZOL: a soil that develops in temperate to cold moist climates under coniferous or heath vegetation; an organic mat over a grey leached layer
POEM: a composition written in metrical feet forming rhythmical lines
POET: a writer of poems (the term is usually reserved for writers of good poetry)
POETIC: 1. of or relating to poetry. 2. characterized by romantic imagery. 3. of or relating to poets. 4. characteristic of or befitting poetry. 
POETRY: 1. literature in metrical form. 2. any communication resembling poetry in beauty or the evocation of feeling. 
POGGE: northern Atlantic sea poacher
POGROM: organized persecution of an ethnic group (especially Jews)
POI: Hawaiian dish of taro root pounded to a paste and often allowed to ferment
POYANG: a lake in central China that is connected to the Chang Jiang by a canal
POILU: a French soldier (especially in World War I)
POINT: 1. a geometric element that has position but no extension. 2. the precise location of something; a spatially limited location. 3. a brief version of the essential meaning of something. 4. an instant of time. 5. mark (Hebrew words) with diacritics. 6. mark with diacritics. 7. mark (a psalm text) to indicate the points at which the music changes. 8. be positionable in a specified manner. 9. a promontory extending out into a large body of water. 10. a style in speech or writing that arrests attention and has a penetrating or convincing quality or effect. 11. repair the joints of bricks. 12. sharp end. 13. a linear unit used to measure the size of type; approximately 1/72 inch. 14. one percent of the total principal of a loan; it is paid at the time the loan is made and is independent of the interest on the loan. 15. a V-shaped mark at one end of an arrow pointer. 16. the property of a shape that tapers to a sharp tip. 17. a distinguishing or individuating characteristic. 18. the gun muzzle's direction. 19. a wall socket. 20. indicate the presence of (game) by standing and pointing with the muzzle. 
POISE: 1. be motionless, in suspension. 2. a state of being balanced in a stable equilibrium. 3. cause to be balanced or suspended. 4. hold or carry in equilibrium. 
POISED: marked by balance or equilibrium and readiness for action
POISON: 1. spoil as if by poison. 2. kill with poison. 3. add poison to. 4. kill by its poison. 5. administer poison to. 
POKE: 1. tall coarse perennial American herb having small white flowers followed by blackish-red berries on long drooping racemes; young fleshy stems are edible; berries and root are poisonous. 2. stir by poking. 3. make a hole by poking. 
POKER: 1. fire iron consisting of a metal rod with a handle; used to stir a fire. 2. any of various card games in which players bet that they hold the highest-ranking hand. 
POKOMO: a Bantu language spoken in the Kenyan coastal areas of East Africa
POLACK: a person of Polish descent
POLAND: a republic in central Europe; the invasion of Poland by Germany in 1939 started World War II
POLAR: 1. having a pair of equal and opposite charges. 2. located at or near or coming from the earth's poles. 3. of or existing at or near a geographical pole or within the Arctic or Antarctic Circles. 
POLDER: low-lying land that has been reclaimed and is protected by dikes (especially in the Netherlands)
POLE: 1. a long (usually round) rod of wood or metal or plastic. 2. support on poles. 3. deoxidize molten metals by stirring them with a wooden pole. 4. one of two points of intersection of the Earth's axis and the celestial sphere. 5. one of two antipodal points where the Earth's axis of rotation intersects the Earth's surface. 6. a long fiberglass sports implement used for pole vaulting. 7. one of the two ends of a magnet where the magnetism seems to be concentrated. 
POLEAX: 1. fell with or as if with a poleax. 2. a battle ax used in the Middle Ages; a long handled ax and a pick. 
POLICE: the force of policemen and officers
POLICY: 1. a plan of action adopted by an individual or social group. 2. a line of argument rationalizing the course of action of a government. 3. written contract or certificate of insurance. 
POLYP: 1. a small vascular growth on the surface of a mucous membrane. 2. one of two forms that coelenterates take (e.g. a hydra or coral): usually sedentary with a hollow cylindrical body usually with a ring of tentacles around the mouth. 
POLISH: 1. of or relating to Poland or its people or culture. 2. improve or perfect by pruning or polishing. 3. bring to a highly developed, finished, or refined state. 4. the Slavic language of Poland. 
POLITE: showing regard for others in manners, speech, behavior, etc.
POLITY: 1. a politically organized unit. 2. shrewd or crafty management of public affairs. 
POLKA: 1. dance a polka. 2. a Bohemian dance with 3 steps and a hop in fast time. 
POLL: 1. get the opinions (of people) by asking specific questions. 2. get the votes of. 3. convert into a pollard. 4. the counting of votes (as in an election). 5. vote in an election at a polling station. 
POLLEN: the fine spores that contain male gametes and that are borne by an anther in a flowering plant
POLLS: the place where people vote
POLLUX: the brightest star in Gemini; close to Castor
POLO: 1. Venetian traveler who explored Asia in the 13th century and served Kublai Khan (1254-1324). 2. a game similar to field hockey but played on horseback using long-handled mallets and a wooden ball. 
POLONY: another name for Bologna sausage
POMADE: apply pomade to (hair)
POME: a fleshy fruit (apple or pear or related fruits) having seed chambers and an outer fleshy part
POMELO: 1. southeastern Asian tree producing large fruits resembling grapefruits. 2. large pear-shaped fruit similar to grapefruit but with coarse dry pulp. 
POMMEL: 1. a handgrip that a gymnast uses when performing exercises on a pommel horse. 2. handgrip formed by the raised front part of a saddle. 
POMMY: a disparaging term for a British person
POMO: 1. a member of an Indian people of northern California living along the Russian River valley and adjacent Pacific coast. 2. the Kulanapan language spoken by the Pomo. 
POMP: ceremonial elegance and splendor
POMPEY: Roman general and statesman who quarrelled with Caesar and fled to Egypt where he was murdered (106-48 BC)
POMPON: 1. decoration consisting of a ball of tufted wool or silk; usually worn on a hat. 2. dusky grey food fish found from Louisiana and Florida southward. 
PONCA: 1. a member of the Siouan people of the Missouri river valley in northeastern Nebraska. 2. the Dhegiha dialect spoken by the Ponca. 
PONCE: a man who is effeminate in his manner and fussy in the way he dresses
PONCHO: a blanket-like cloak with a hole in the center for the head
POND: a small lake
PONGEE: a soft thin cloth woven from raw silk (or an imitation)
PONGO: type genus of the family Pongidae: orangutans
PONY: 1. a range horse of the western United States. 2. an informal term for a racehorse. 3. a literal translation used in studying a foreign language (often used illicitly). 4. any of various breeds of small gentle horses usually less than five feet high at the shoulder. 
PONS: 1. United States coloratura soprano (born in France) (1904-1976). 2. a band of nerve fibers linking the medulla oblongata and the cerebellum with the midbrain. 
PONTUS: 1. (Greek mythology) ancient personification of the sea; father of Nereus. 2. an ancient region of northern Asia Minor on the Black Sea; it reached its height under Mithridates VI but was later incorporated into the Roman Empire. 
POOCH: round one's lips as if intending to kiss
POOD: a Russian unit of weight equal to approximately 36 pounds
POODLE: an intelligent dog with a heavy curly solid-colored coat that is usually clipped; an old breed sometimes trained as sporting dogs or as performing dogs
POOL: 1. combine into a common fund. 2. an organization of people or resources that can be shared. 3. any communal combination of funds. 4. a small body of standing water (rainwater) or other liquid. 5. the combined stakes of the betters. 6. something resembling a pool of liquid. 7. any of various games played on a pool table having 6 pockets. 8. join or form a pool of people. 
POOLER: someone who shares in and contributes to a general fund for use by all
POON: 1. wood of any poon tree; used for masts and spars. 2. any of several East Indian trees of the genus Calophyllum having shiny leathery leaves and lightweight hard wood. 
POOR: 1. having little money or few possessions. 2. characterized by or indicating poverty. 3. lacking in specific resources, qualities or substances. 4. unsatisfactory. 
POP: 1. hit a pop-fly. 2. make a sharp explosive noise. 3. fire a weapon with a loud explosive noise. 4. cause to make a sharp explosive sound. 5. put or thrust suddenly and forcefully. 6. release suddenly. 7. hit or strike. 8. take drugs, especially orally. 9. cause to burst with a loud, explosive sound. 10. burst open with a sharp, explosive sound. 11. like a pop or with a pop. 
POPE: 1. the head of the Roman Catholic Church. 2. English poet and satirist (1688-1744). 
POPERY: offensive terms for the practices and rituals of the Roman Catholic Church
POPGUN: plaything consisting of a toy gun that makes a popping sound
POPLAR: 1. soft light-colored non-durable wood of the poplar. 2. any of numerous trees of north temperate regions having light soft wood and flowers borne in catkins. 
POPLIN: a ribbed fabric used in clothing and upholstery
POPPER: 1. British philosopher (born in Austria) who argued that scientific theories can never be proved to be true, but are tested by attempts to falsify them (1902-1994). 2. a container of stimulant drug (amyl nitrate or butyl nitrite). 3. a container for cooking popcorn. 
POPPET: a mushroom-shaped valve that rises perpendicularly from its seat; commonly used in internal-combustion engines
POPPY: annual or biennial or perennial herbs having showy flowers
PORCH: a structure attached to the exterior of a building often forming a covered entrance
PORE: 1. any tiny hole admitting passage of a liquid (fluid or gas). 2. any small opening in the skin or outer surface of an animal. 
PORGY: 1. lean flesh of fish found in warm waters of southern Atlantic coast of the United States. 2. important deep-bodied food and sport fish of warm and tropical coastal waters; found worldwide. 
PORK: meat from a domestic hog or pig
PORKER: a pig fattened to provide meat
POROSE: forming a continuous series of pores
POROUS: 1. able to absorb fluids. 2. full of pores or vessels or holes. 
PORT: 1. located on the left side of a ship or aircraft. 2. bring to port. 3. land at or reach a port. 4. turn or go to the port or left side, of a ship. 5. carry, bear, convey, or bring. 6. carry or hold with both hands diagonally across the body, especially of weapons. 7. drink port. 8. modify (software) for use on a different machine or platform. 
PORTAL: a grand and imposing entrance (often extended metaphorically)
PORTE: the Ottoman court in Constantinople
PORTER: 1. carry luggage or supplies. 2. United States writer of novels and short stories (1890-1980). 3. United States composer and lyricist of musical comedies (1891-1946). 4. United States writer of short stories whose pen name was O. Henry (1862-1910). 5. a railroad employee who assists passengers (especially on sleeping cars). 6. a very dark sweet ale brewed from roasted unmalted barley. 
PORTLY: euphemisms for `fat'
PORTO: port city in northwest Portugal; noted for port wine
POSE: 1. a posture assumed by models for photographic or artistic purposes. 2. pretend to be someone you are not; sometimes with fraudulent intentions. 3. behave affectedly or unnaturally in order to impress others. 
POSED: arranged for pictorial purposes
POSER: a particularly difficult or baffling question or problem
POSEUR: a person who habitually pretends to be something he is not
POSSE: a temporary police force
POSSET: sweet spiced hot milk curdled with ale or beer
POST: 1. affix in a public place or for public notice. 2. an upright consisting of a piece of timber or metal fixed firmly in an upright position. 3. display, as of records in sports games. 4. enter on a public list. 5. transfer (entries) from one account book to another. 6. a pole or stake set up to mark something (as the start or end of a race track). 7. the delivery and collection of letters and packages. 8. publicize with, or as if with, a poster. 9. assign to a post; put into a post. 10. ride Western style and bob up and down in the saddle in rhythm with a horse's trotting gait. 11. place so as to be noticed. 12. mark or expose as infamous. 
POSTAL: of or relating to the system for delivering mail
POSTED: publicly announced
POSTER: a sign posted in a public place as an advertisement
POT: 1. plant in a pot. 2. the quantity contained in a pot. 3. a container in which plants are cultivated. 4. the cumulative amount involved in a game (such as poker). 5. slang for a paunch. 6. street names for marijuana. 
POTAGE: thick (often creamy) soup
POTASH: a potassium compound often used in agriculture and industry
POTATO: 1. an edible tuber native to South America; a staple food of Ireland. 2. annual native to South America having underground stolons bearing edible starchy tubers; widely cultivated as a garden vegetable; vines are poisonous. 
POTBOY: a worker in an inn or public house who serves customers and does various chores
POTEEN: unlawfully distilled Irish whiskey
POTENT: 1. having great influence. 2. having or wielding force or authority. 3. having a strong physiological or chemical effect. 4. (of a male) capable of copulation. 
POTHER: make upset or troubled
POTHOS: any of various tropical lianas of the genus Scindapsus
POTION: a medicinal or magical or poisonous beverage
POTOS: a genus of Procyonidae
POTPIE: deep-dish meat and vegetable pie or a meat stew with dumplings
POTTED: 1. of plants; planted or grown in a pot. 2. preserved in a pot or can or jar. 3. (British informal) summarized or abridged. 
POTTER: 1. a craftsman who shapes pottery on a potter's wheel and bakes them it a kiln. 2. work lightly. 
POTTY: 1. (British informal) trivial. 2. slightly intoxicated. 
POTTLE: a pot that holds 2 quarts
POTTO: a kind of lemur
POUCH: 1. put into a small bag. 2. send by special mail that goes through diplomatic channels. 3. (anatomy) saclike structure in any of various animals (as a marsupial or gopher or pelican). 
POUNCE: move down on as if in an attack
POUND: 1. 16 ounces avoirdupois. 2. a unit of apothecary weight equal to 12 ounces troy. 3. a nontechnical unit of force equal to the mass of 1 pound with an acceleration of free fall equal to 32 feet/sec/sec. 4. United States writer who lived in Europe; strongly influenced the development of modern literature (1885-1972). 5. a symbol for a unit of currency (especially for the pound sterling in Great Britain). 6. a public enclosure for stray or unlicensed dogs. 7. partition off into compartments. 8. shut up or confine in any enclosure or within any bounds or limits. 9. break down and crush by beating, as with a pestle. 
POUR: 1. cause to run. 2. move in large numbers. 3. flow in a spurt. 4. supply in large amounts or quantities. 5. rain heavily. 
POUT: 1. a disdainful grimace. 2. make a sad face and thrust out one's lower lip. 
POWDER: 1. a solid substance in the form of tiny loose particles; a solid that has been pulverized. 2. any of various cosmetic or medical preparations dispensed in the form of a pulverized powder. 3. apply powder to. 
POWER: 1. supply the force or power for the functioning of. 2. (physics) the rate of doing work; measured in watts (= joules/second). 3. one possessing or exercising power or influence or authority. 
POWYS: 1. British writer of essays; one of three literary brothers (1884-1939). 2. British writer of allegorical novels; one of three literary brothers (1875-1953). 3. British writer of novels about nature; one of three literary brothers (1872-1963). 
POWWOW: 1. a council of or with Native Americans. 2. hold a powwow, talk, conference or meeting. 
POX: a contagious disease characterized by purulent skin eruptions that may leave pock marks
PRAGUE: the capital and largest city of the Czech Republic in the western part of the country; a cultural and commercial center since the 14th century
PRAY: address a deity, a prophet, a saint or an object of worship; say a prayer
PRAYA: colonial siphonophore of up to 130 ft long
PRAYER: 1. the act of communicating with a deity (especially as a petition or in adoration or contrition or thanksgiving). 2. reverent petition to a deity. 3. a fixed text used in praying. 4. someone who prays to God. 
PRAISE: 1. express approval of. 2. offering words of homage as an act of worship. 
PRANCE: 1. spring forward on the hind legs. 2. cause (a horse) to bound spring forward. 3. ride a horse such that it springs and bounds forward. 
PRANG: crash
PRANK: 1. dress or decorate showily or gaudily. 2. dress up showily. 
PRATE: idle or foolish and irrelevant talk
PRAWN: 1. fish for prawns. 2. shrimp-like decapod crustacean having two pairs of pincers; most are edible. 
PREACH: 1. deliver a sermon. 2. speak, plead, or argue in favor of. 
PRECIS: make a summary (of)
PREEN: 1. clean with one's bill. 2. pride or congratulate (oneself) for an achievement. 3. dress or groom with elaborate care. 
PREFAB: manufactured in standard sizes to be shipped and assembled elsewhere
PREFER: 1. like better; value more highly. 2. promote over another. 3. give preference to one creditor over another. 
PREFIX: attach a prefix to
PREY: 1. profit from in an exploitatory manner. 2. animal hunted or caught for food. 
PREPAY: pay for something before receiving it
PRESET: set in advance
PRESS: 1. the print media responsible for gathering and publishing news in the form of newspapers or magazines. 2. a machine used for printing. 3. crowd closely. 4. create by pressing. 5. be urgent. 6. the act of pressing; the exertion of pressure. 7. exert pressure or force to or upon. 8. place between two surfaces and apply weight or pressure. 9. press from a plastic. 10. make strenuous pushing movements during birth to expel the baby. 
PRESTO: 1. suddenly. 2. at a very fast tempo (faster than allegro). 
PRETTY: 1. pleasing by delicacy or grace; not imposing. 2. (used ironically) unexpectedly bad. 
PREWAR: existing or belonging to a time before a war
PRY: 1. to move or force, especially in an effort to get something open. 2. be nosey. 3. make an uninvited or presumptuous inquiry. 
PRIAM: (Greek mythology) the last king of Troy; father of Hector and Paris and Cassandra
PRICE: 1. ascertain or learn the price of. 2. value measured by what must be given or done or undergone to obtain something. 3. the high value or worth of something. 4. a monetary reward for helping to catch a criminal. 5. cost of bribing someone. 6. United States operatic soprano (born 1927). 7. determine the price of. 
PRICK: 1. the act of puncturing with a small point. 2. cause a stinging pain. 3. to cause a sharp emotional pain. 
PRIDE: 1. be proud of. 2. satisfaction with your (or another's) achievements. 3. the trait of being spurred on by a dislike of falling below your standards. 4. a group of lions. 5. unreasonable and inordinate self-esteem (personified as one of the deadly sins). 
PRIEST: 1. a clergyman in Christian churches who has the authority to perform or administer various religious rites; one of the Holy Orders. 2. a person who performs religious duties and ceremonies in a non-Christian religion. 
PRIM: 1. assume a prim appearance. 2. contract one's lips. 3. dress primly. 
PRIMA: used primarily as eating apples
PRIME: 1. insert a primer into (a gun, mine, or charge) preparatory to detonation or firing. 2. fill with priming liquid. 3. of or relating to or being an integer that cannot be factored into other integers. 4. used of the first or originating agent. 5. being at the best stage of development. 
PRIMER: an introductory textbook
PRIMLY: in a prissy manner
PRIMO: the best of its kind
PRIMUS: the presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church of Scotland
PRINCE: a male member of a royal family other than the sovereign (especially the son of a sovereign)
PRINK: dress very carefully and in a finicky manner
PRINT: 1. put into print. 2. write as if with print; not cursive. 3. reproduce by printing. 4. a copy of a movie on film (especially a particular version of it). 5. a fabric with a dyed pattern pressed onto it (usually by engraved rollers). 6. make into a print. 
PRION: (microbiology) an infectious protein particle similar to a virus but lacking nucleic acid; thought to be the agent responsible for scrapie and other degenerative diseases of the nervous system
PRIOR: the head of a religious order; in an abbey the prior is next below the abbot
PRIORY: religious residence in a monastery governed by a prior or a convent governed by a prioress
PRISM: 1. a polyhedron with two congruent and parallel faces (the bases) and whose lateral faces are parallelograms. 2. optical device having a triangular shape and made of glass or quartz; used to deviate a beam or invert an image. 
PRISON: 1. a correctional institution where persons are confined while on trial or for punishment. 2. a prisonlike situation; a place of seeming confinement. 
PRIVET: any of various Old World shrubs having smooth entire leaves and terminal panicles of small white flowers followed by small black berries; many used for hedges
PRIVY: 1. hidden from general view or use. 2. (followed by `to') informed about something secret or not generally known. 
PRIZE: hold dear
PRO: 1. an argument in favor of a proposal. 2. in favor of a proposition, opinion, etc.. 
PROBE: 1. question or examine thoroughly and closely. 2. examine physically with or as if with a probe. 3. an exploratory action or expedition. 4. an investigation conducted using a flexible surgical instrument to explore an injury or a body cavity. 
PROD: urge on; cause to act
PROFIT: 1. make a profit; gain money or materially. 2. derive a benefit from. 
PROGNE: a genus of Hirundinidae
PROLIX: tediously prolonged or tending to speak or write at great length
PROLOG: a computer language designed in Europe to support natural language processing
PROMPT: 1. according to schedule or without delay; on time. 2. ready and willing or quick to act; . 3. assist (somebody acting or reciting) by suggesting the next words of something forgotten or imperfectly learned. 
PRONE: 1. having a tendency (to); often used in combination. 2. lying face downward. 
PRONG: a pointed projection
PROOF: 1. (used in combination or as a suffix) able to withstand. 2. knead to reach proper lightness. 3. a measure of alcoholic strength expressed as an integer twice the percentage of alcohol present (by volume). 4. activate by mixing with water and sometimes sugar or milk. 5. make resistant (to harm). 
PROP: a support placed beneath or against something to keep it from shaking or falling
PROPEL: cause to move forward with force
PROPER: 1. marked by suitability or rightness or appropriateness. 2. having all the qualities typical of the thing specified; not just a snack". 3. limited to the thing specified. 4. appropriate for a condition or purpose or occasion or a person's character, needs. 
PROPYL: the monovalent organic group C3H7- obtained from propane
PROPS: proper respect
PROSE: 1. ordinary writing as distinguished from verse. 2. matter of fact, commonplace, or dull expression. 
PROTEA: any tropical African shrub of the genus Protea having alternate rigid leaves and dense colorful flower heads resembling cones
PROTO: indicating the first or earliest or original
PROTON: a stable particle with positive charge equal to the negative charge of an electron
PROUD: feeling self-respect or pleasure in something by which you measure your self-worth; or being a reason for pride
PROUST: French novelist (1871-1922)
PROVE: 1. be shown or be found to be. 2. establish the validity of something, as by an example, explanation or experiment. 3. prove formally; demonstrate by a mathematical, formal proof. 4. take a trial impression of. 5. obtain probate of. 
PROVED: established beyond doubt
PROVO: a city in north central Utah settled by Mormons
PROWL: 1. move about in or as if in a predatory manner. 2. loiter about, with no apparent aim. 
PROXY: 1. a person authorized to act for another. 2. a power of attorney document given by shareholders of a corporation authorizing a specific vote on their behalf at a corporate meeting. 
PRUDE: a person excessively concerned about propriety and decorum
PRUNE: dried plum
PRUNER: 1. a worker who thins out and trims trees and shrubs. 2. a long-handled pruning saw with a curved blade at the end and sometimes a clipper; used to prune small trees. 
PRUNUS: a genus of shrubs and trees of the family Rosaceae that is widely distributed in temperate regions
PSALM: 1. sing or celebrate in psalms. 2. any sacred song used to praise the deity. 
PSALMS: an Old Testament book consisting of a collection of 150 Psalms
PSETTA: a genus of Bothidae
PSEUDO: (often used in combination) not genuine but having the appearance of
PSYCHE: (Greek mythology) a beautiful princess loved by Cupid who visited her at night and told her she must not try to see him; became the personification of the soul
PSOAS: either of two muscles of the abdomen and pelvis that flex the trunk and rotate the thigh
PSOCID: small winged insect living on the bark and leaves of trees and feeding on e.g. fungi and decaying plant matter
PTAH: a major Egyptian god; shaper of the world; father of gods and men; worshipped especially at Memphis
PTERIS: large genus of terrestrial ferns of tropics and subtropics; sometimes placed in family Polypodiaceae
PTOSIS: drooping of the upper eyelid caused by muscle paralysis and weakness
PUBES: the lower part of the abdomen just above the external genital organs
PUBIC: relating or near the pubis
PUBIS: one of the three sections of the hipbone; together these two bones form the front of the pelvis
PUBLIC: 1. affecting the people or community as a whole. 2. not private; open to or concerning the people as a whole. 
PUCE: a color varying from dark purplish brown to dark red
PUCK: 1. a mischievous sprite of English folklore. 2. a vulcanized rubber disk 3 inches in diameter that is used instead of a ball in ice hockey. 
PUCKER: 1. to gather something into small wrinkles or folds. 2. become wrinkled or drawn together. 
PUDDLE: 1. wade or dabble in a puddle. 2. subject to puddling or form by puddling. 3. dip into mud before planting. 4. work a wet mixture, such as concrete or mud. 5. mess around, as in a liquid or paste. 6. make a puddle by splashing water. 
PUDGE: a short fat person
PUEBLA: a city in south central Mexico (southeast of Mexico City) on the edge of central Mexican plateau
PUEBLO: 1. a member of any of about two dozen Native American peoples called `Pueblos' by the Spanish because they live in pueblos (villages built of adobe and rock). 2. a city in Colorado to the south of Colorado Springs. 3. a communal village built by Indians in the southwestern United States. 
PUFF: 1. gathered for protruding fullness. 2. suck in or take (air). 3. exaggerated praise (as for promotional purposes). 4. to swell or cause to enlarge, "Her faced puffed up from the drugs". 5. make proud or conceited. 6. praise extravagantly. 7. speak in a blustering or scornful manner. 8. blow hard and loudly. 
PUFFER: any of numerous marine fishes whose elongated spiny body can inflate itself with water or air to form a globe; several species contain a potent nerve poison; closely related to spiny puffers
PUFFY: abnormally distended especially by fluids or gas
PUFFIN: any of two genera of northern seabirds having short necks and brightly colored compressed bills
PUG: small compact smooth-coated breed of Asiatic origin having a tightly curled tail and broad flat wrinkled muzzle
PUGIN: English architect who played a prominent role in the 19th century revival of Gothic architecture (1812-1852)
PUGLIA: a region in southeastern Italy on the Adriatic
PUKA: 1. South American shrub or small tree having long shining evergreen leaves and panicles of green or yellow flowers. 2. small roundheaded New Zealand tree having large resinous leaves and panicles of green-white flowers. 
PUKKA: absolutely first class and genuine
PUKU: an African antelope closely related to the waterbuck
PULEX: type genus of the Pulicidae
PULL: 1. cause to move by pulling. 2. the force used in pulling. 3. move into a certain direction. 4. apply force so as to cause motion towards the source of the motion. 5. steer into a certain direction. 6. strain abnormally. 7. cause to move in a certain direction by exerting a force upon, either physically or in an abstract sense. 8. operate when rowing a boat. 9. rein in to keep from winning a race. 10. hit in the direction that the player is facing when carrying through the swing. 11. take sides with; align oneself with; show strong sympathy for. 12. take away. 
PULLEY: a simple machine consisting of a wheel with a groove in which a rope can run to change the direction or point of application of a force applied to the rope
PULLER: 1. someone who applies force so as to cause motion toward herself or himself. 2. someone who pulls or tugs or drags in an effort to move something. 
PULLET: young hen usually less than a year old
PULP: 1. remove the pulp from, as from a fruit. 2. reduce to pulp. 3. a mixture of cellulose fibers. 4. an inexpensive magazine printed on poor quality paper. 5. the soft inner part of a tooth. 
PULPY: like a pulp or overripe; not having stiffness
PULQUE: fermented Mexican drink from juice of various agave plants especially the maguey
PULSAR: a degenerate neutron star; small and extremely dense; rotates very fast and emits regular pulses of polarized radiation
PULSE: 1. produce or modulate (as electromagnetic waves) in the form of short bursts or pulses or cause an apparatus to produce pulses. 2. drive by or as if by pulsation. 3. edible seeds of various pod-bearing plants (peas or beans or lentils etc.). 
PUMICE: rub with pumice, in order to clean or to smoothen
PUMMEL: strike, usually with the fist
PUMP: 1. operate like a pump; move up and down, like a handle or a pedal. 2. draw or pour with a pump. 3. deliver forth. 4. supply in great quantities. 5. flow intermittently. 6. move up and down. 7. raise (gases or fluids) with a pump. 8. question persistently. 
PUN: make a play on words
PUNCH: 1. deliver a quick blow to. 2. drive forcibly as if by a punch. 3. make a hole into or between, as for ease of separation. 
PUNG: a one-horse sleigh consisting of a box on runners
PUNY: 1. inferior in strength or significance. 2. (used especially of persons) of inferior size. 
PUNIC: 1. the Phoenician dialect of ancient Carthage. 2. tending to betray; especially having a treacherous character as attributed to the Carthaginians by the Romans. 
PUNICA: coextensive with the family Punicaceae
PUNILY: in a puny manner
PUNISH: impose a penalty on; inflict punishment on
PUNJAB: a historical region on northwestern India and northern Pakistan
PUNK: substance that smolders when ignited; used to light fuses (especially fireworks)
PUNKAH: a large fan consisting of a frame covered with canvas that is suspended from the ceiling; used in India for circulating air in a room
PUNKIE: minute two-winged insect that sucks the blood of mammals and birds and other insects
PUNKS: a youth subculture closely associated with punk rock music in the late 1970s; in part a reaction to the hippy subculture; dress was optional but intended to shock (plastic garbage bags or old school uniforms) and hair was dyed in bright colors (in Mohican haircuts or sometimes spiked in bright plumes)
PUNNET: a small light basket used as a measure for fruits
PUNT: 1. propel with a pole. 2. (football) a kick in which the football is dropped from the hands and kicked before it touches the ground. 3. kick the ball. 
PUNTER: 1. someone who propels a boat with a pole. 2. (football) a person who kicks the football by dropping it from the hands and contacting it with the foot before it hits the ground. 
PUP: young of any of various canines such as a dog or wolf
PUPA: an insect in the inactive stage of development (when it is not feeding) intermediate between larva and adult
PUPAL: of the insects in the chrysalis (cocoon) or post larval stage
PUPATE: develop into a pupa
PUPIL: the contractile aperture in the center of the iris of the eye; resembles a large black dot
PUPPET: 1. a small figure of a person operated from above with strings by a puppeteer. 2. a doll with a hollow head of a person or animal and a cloth body; intended to fit over the hand and be manipulated with the fingers. 
PUPPY: 1. a young dog. 2. an inexperienced young person. 
PUPPIS: a constellation in the southern hemisphere between Vela and Canis Major that shaped like the stern of a boat
PURANA: a body of 18 works written between the first and 11th centuries and incorporating legends and speculative histories of the universe and myths and customary observances
PURDAH: 1. the traditional Hindu or Muslim system of keeping women secluded. 2. a screen used in India to separate women from men or strangers. 
PURE: 1. free of extraneous elements of any kind. 2. free from discordant qualities. 3. concerned with theory and data rather than practice; opposed to applied. 4. (used of persons or behaviors) having no faults; sinless. 5. in a state of sexual virginity. 
PUREE: rub through a strainer or process in an electric blender
PURGE: 1. oust politically. 2. clear of a charge. 3. an abrupt or sudden removal of a person or group from an organization or place. 4. rid of impurities. 5. excrete or evacuate (someone's bowels or body). 
PURIFY: 1. remove impurities from, increase the concentration of, and separate through the process of distillation. 2. make pure or free from sin or guilt. 3. become clean or pure or free of guilt and sin. 
PURIM: (Judaism) a Jewish holy day commemorating their deliverance from massacre by Haman
PURINE: 1. any of several bases that are derivatives of purine. 2. a colorless crystalline organic base containing nitrogen; the parent compound of various biologically important substances. 
PURISM: scrupulous or exaggerated insistence on purity or correctness (especially in language)
PURIST: someone who insists on great precision and correctness (especially in the use of words)
PURITY: 1. being undiluted or unmixed with extraneous material. 2. the state of being unsullied by sin or moral wrong; lacking a knowledge of evil. 
PURL: 1. gold or silver wire thread. 2. a basic knitting stitch. 3. knit with a purl stitch. 4. edge or border with gold or silver embroidery. 5. embroider with gold or silver thread. 
PURPLE: 1. of a color intermediate between red and blue. 2. color purple. 
PURR: 1. a low vibrating sound typical of a contented cat. 2. indicate pleasure by purring; characteristic of cats. 
PURSE: 1. gather or contract into wrinkles or folds; pucker. 2. a small bag for carrying money. 3. a sum of money offered as a prize. 4. contract one's lips into a rounded shape. 
PURSER: an officer aboard a ship who keeps accounts and attends to the passengers' welfare
PURSUE: 1. follow in or as if in pursuit. 2. carry further or advance. 
PURUS: a Brazilian river; tributary of the Amazon River
PUS: 1. the tenth month of the Hindu calendar. 2. a fluid product of inflammation. 
PUSAN: a city in southeastern South Korea on the Korean Strait; the chief port and second largest city
PUSEY: English theologian who (with John Henry Newman and John Keble) founded the Oxford movement (1800-1882)
PUSH: 1. move with force, "He pushed the table into a corner". 2. press, drive, or impel (someone) to action or completion of an action. 3. press against forcefully without moving. 4. approach a certain age or speed. 5. sell or promote the sale of (illegal goods such as drugs). 6. move strenuously and with effort. 
PUSHAN: celestial shepherd god; conductor of souls of the dead
PUSHER: 1. one who intrudes or pushes himself forward. 2. an unlicensed dealer in illegal drugs. 3. someone who pushes. 4. a sandal attached to the foot by a thong over the toes. 
PUSHUP: an arm exercise performed lying face to the floor and pushing the body up and down with the arms
PUT: 1. put into a certain place or abstract location. 2. cause to be in a certain state; cause to be in a certain relation. 3. attribute or give. 4. cause (someone) to undergo something. 5. adapt. 
PUTOFF: a pretext for delay or inaction
PUTOUT: an out resulting from a fielding play (not a strikeout)
PUTRID: 1. of or relating to or attended by putrefaction. 2. in an advanced state of decomposition and having a foul odor. 3. morally corrupt or evil. 
PUTT: 1. strike (a golf ball) lightly, with a putter. 2. hit a putt. 
PUTTEE: a strip of cloth wound around the leg to form legging; used by soldiers in World War I
PUTTER: 1. a golfer who is putting. 2. do random, unplanned work or activities or spend time idly. 3. move around aimlessly. 
PUTTY: apply putty in order to fix or fill
PUTZ: (Yiddish) a fool; an idiot
PUZZLE: 1. a particularly baffling problem that is said to have a correct solution. 2. be uncertain about; think about without fully understanding or being able to decide. 
PINER: 1. In England, a rather strong breeze from the north or northeast.. 2. (in Tasmania) a person employed in felling Huon pines and transporting the timber.. 
QADI: an Islamic judge
QATAR: 1. an Arab country on the peninsula of Qatar; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1971; the economy is dominated by oil. 2. a peninsula extending northward from the Arabian mainland into the Persian Gulf. 
QIBLA: 1. the direction of the Kaaba toward which Muslims turn for their daily prayers. 2. a small terrorist group of Muslims in South Africa formed in the 1980s; was inspired by Ayatollah Khomeini to create an Islamic state in South Africa. 
QUACK: 1. medically unqualified. 2. act as a medical quack or a charlatan. 
QUAD: 1. (printing) a block of type without a raised letter; used for spacing between words or sentences. 2. a rectangular area surrounded on all sides by buildings. 
QUAFF: a hearty draft
QUAGGA: mammal of South Africa that resembled a zebra; extinct since late 19th century
QUAHOG: an edible American clam; the heavy shells were used as money by some American Indians
QUAY: wharf usually built parallel to the shoreline
QUAIL: 1. flesh of quail; suitable for roasting or broiling if young; otherwise must be braised. 2. small gallinaceous game birds. 
QUAINT: 1. strange in an interesting or pleasing way. 2. very strange or unusual; odd or even incongruous in character or appearance. 
QUAKER: one who quakes and trembles with (or as with) fear
QUANGO: a quasi nongovernmental organization; an organization that is financed by the government yet acts independently of the government
QUAPAW: 1. a member of the Siouan people of the Arkansas river valley in Arkansas. 2. the Dhegiha dialect spoken by the Quapaw. 
QUARK: (physics) hypothetical truly fundamental particle in mesons and baryons; there are supposed to be six flavors of quarks (and their antiquarks), which come in pairs; each has an electric charge of +2/3 or -1/3
QUARRY: extract (something such as stones) from or as if from a quarry
QUART: 1. a United States liquid unit equal to 32 fluid ounces; four quarts equal one gallon. 2. a British imperial capacity measure (liquid or dry) equal to 2 pints or 1.136 liters. 3. a United States dry unit equal to 2 pints or 67.2 cubic inches. 
QUARTO: the size of a book whose pages are made by folding a sheet of paper twice to form four leaves
QUARTZ: a hard glossy mineral consisting of silicon dioxide in crystal form; present in most rocks (especially sandstone and granite); yellow sand is quartz with iron oxide impurities
QUASAR: a starlike object that may send out radio waves and other forms of energy; many have large red shifts
QUASI: having some resemblance
QUAVER: give off unsteady sounds, alternating in amplitude or frequency
QUEBEC: 1. the French-speaking capital of the province of Quebec; situated on the Saint Lawrence River. 2. the largest province of Canada; a French colony from 1663 to 1759 when it was lost to the British. 
QUEEN: 1. promote to a queen, as of a pawn in chess. 2. become a queen. 3. the wife or widow of a king. 4. something personified as a woman who is considered the best or most important of her kind. 5. one of four face cards in a deck bearing a picture of a queen. 6. (chess) the most powerful piece. 7. an especially large mole rat and the only member of a colony of naked mole rats to bear offspring which are sired by only a few males. 
QUEENS: a borough of New York City
QUEER: put in a dangerous, disadvantageous, or difficult position
QUELL: overcome or allay
QUENCH: 1. satisfy (thirst). 2. electronics: suppress (sparking) when the current is cut off in an inductive circuit, or suppress (an oscillation or discharge) in a component or device. 3. reduce the degree of (luminescence or phosphorescence) in (excited molecules or a material) by adding a suitable substance. 4. cool (hot metal) by plunging into cold water or other liquid. 
QUERN: a primitive stone mill for grinding corn by hand
QUEST: 1. search the trail of (game). 2. make a search (for). 3. seek alms, as for religious purposes. 
QUEUE: 1. a line of people or vehicles waiting for something. 2. (information processing) an ordered list of tasks to be performed or messages to be transmitted. 3. a braid of hair at the back of the head. 
QUICHE: 1. a member of the Mayan people of south central Guatemala. 2. a tart filled with rich unsweetened custard; often contains other ingredients (as cheese or ham or seafood or vegetables). 3. the Mayan language spoken by the Quiche. 
QUICK: 1. accomplished rapidly and without delay. 2. apprehending and responding with speed and sensitivity. 3. easily aroused or excited. 
QUIET: 1. characterized by an absence or near absence of agitation or activity. 2. free of noise or uproar; or making little if any sound. 3. not showy or obtrusive. 4. of the sun characterized by a low level of surface phenomena like sunspots e.g.. 
QUIFF: a prominent forelock (especially one brushed upward from the forehead)
QUILL: 1. pen made from a bird's feather. 2. a stiff hollow protective spine on a porcupine or hedgehog. 3. the hollow spine of a feather. 
QUILT: 1. stitch or sew together. 2. create by stitching together. 
QUINCE: 1. small Asian tree with pinkish flowers and pear-shaped fruit; widely cultivated. 2. aromatic acid-tasting pear-shaped fruit used in preserves. 
QUINCY: American patriot who presented the colonists' grievances to the English king (1744-1775)
QUINSY: a painful pus filled inflammation of the tonsils and surrounding tissues; usually a complication of tonsillitis
QUIPU: calculator consisting of a cord with attached cords; used by ancient Peruvians for calculating and keeping records
QUIRA: any of several tropical American trees some yielding economically important timber
QUIRE: a quantity of paper; 24 or 25 sheets
QUIRK: 1. a narrow groove beside a beading. 2. twist or curve abruptly. 
QUIRT: whip with a leather thong at the end
QUITE: 1. to a degree (not used with a negative). 2. to the greatest extent; completely. 3. of an unusually noticeable or exceptional or remarkable kind (not used with a negative). 4. actually or truly or to an extreme. 
QUITO: the capital of Ecuador
QUITS: on equal terms by payment or requital
QUIVER: 1. case for holding arrows. 2. shake with fast, tremulous movements. 
QUIZ: examine someone's knowledge of something
QUM: a city in northwestern Iran; a place of pilgrimage for Shiite Muslims
QUOIN: 1. expandable metal or wooden wedge used by printers to lock up a form within a chase. 2. the keystone of an arch. 
QUOIT: game equipment consisting of a ring of iron or circle of rope used in playing the game of quoits
QUOITS: a game in which iron rings (or open iron rings) are thrown at a stake in the ground in the hope of encircling it
QUORUM: a gathering of the minimal number of members of an organization to conduct business
QUOTA: 1. a prescribed number. 2. a proportional share assigned to each participant. 3. a limitation on imports. 
QUOTE: 1. repeat a passage from. 2. name the price of. 3. refer to for illustration or proof. 4. put quote marks around. 
QUOTER: a communicator (speaker or writer) who uses quotations
QURUSH: 20 qurush equal 1 riyal in Saudi Arabia
RABAT: the capital of Morocco; located in the northwestern on the Atlantic coast
RABATO: a wired or starched collar of intricate lace; worn in 17th century
RABBET: 1. join with a rabbet joint. 2. cut a rectangular groove into. 
RABBI: 1. spiritual leader of a Jewish congregation; qualified to expound and apply Jewish law. 2. a Hebrew title of respect for a Jewish scholar or teacher. 
RABBIT: 1. hunt rabbits. 2. flesh of any of various rabbits or hares (wild or domesticated) eaten as food. 
RABBLE: disparaging terms for the common people
RABID: of or infected by rabies
RABIES: an acute viral disease of the nervous system of warm-blooded animals (usually transmitted by the bite of a rabid animal); rabies is fatal if the virus reaches the brain
RACE: 1. any competition. 2. compete in a race. 3. to work as fast as possible towards a goal, sometimes in competition with others. 4. cause to move fast or to rush or race. 
RACEME: usually elongate cluster of flowers along the main stem in which the flowers at the base open first
RACER: 1. someone who drives racing cars at high speeds. 2. a fast car that competes in races. 3. an animal that races. 4. slender fast-moving North American snakes. 
RACHEL: (Old Testament) the second wife of Jacob and mother of Joseph and Benjamin
RACHIS: axis of a compound leaf or compound inflorescence
RACY: designed or suitable for competing in a race
RACIAL: 1. of or related to genetically distinguished groups of people. 2. of or characteristic of race or races or arising from differences among groups. 
RACILY: in a racy manner
RACINE: 1. French advocate of Jansenism; tragedian who based his works on Greek and Roman themes (1639-1699). 2. a city in southeastern Wisconsin on Lake Michigan to the south of Milwaukee. 
RACING: the sport of engaging in contests of speed
RACISM: 1. the prejudice that members of one race are intrinsically superior to members of other races. 2. discriminatory or abusive behavior towards members of another race. 
RACIST: 1. based on racial intolerance. 2. discriminatory especially on the basis of race or religion. 
RACK: 1. framework for holding objects. 2. stretch to the limits. 3. an instrument of torture that stretches or disjoints or mutilates victims. 4. a support for displaying various articles. 5. fly in high wind. 6. draw off from the lees. 7. put on a rack and pinion. 8. work on a rack. 9. seize together, as of parallel ropes of a tackle in order to prevent running through the block. 10. torture on the rack. 
RACKER: an attendant who puts pool or billiard balls into a rack
RACKET: 1. a loud and disturbing noise. 2. make loud and annoying noises. 3. a sports implement (usually consisting of a handle and an oval frame with a tightly interlaced network of strings) used to strike a ball (or shuttlecock) in various games. 4. hit (a ball) with a racket. 
RAD: a unit of absorbed ionizing radiation equal to 100 ergs per gram of irradiated material
RADAR: measuring instrument in which the echo of a pulse of microwave radiation is used to detect and locate distant objects
RADDLE: 1. twist or braid together, interlace. 2. mark or paint with raddle. 
RADIAL: 1. relating to or near the radius. 2. relating to or moving along or having the direction of a radius. 3. issuing in rays from a common center; relating to rays of light. 4. arranged like rays or radii; radiating from a common center. 
RADIAN: the unit of plane angle adopted under the Systeme International d'Unites; equal to the angle at the center of a circle subtended by an arc equal in length to the radius (approximately 57.295 degrees)
RADIO: 1. indicating radiation or radioactivity. 2. a communication system based on broadcasting electromagnetic waves. 
RADISH: 1. pungent fleshy edible root. 2. radish of Japan with a long hard durable root eaten raw or cooked. 3. pungent edible root of any of various cultivated radish plants. 4. Eurasian plant widely cultivated for its edible pungent root usually eaten raw. 
RADIUM: an intensely radioactive metallic element that occurs in minute amounts in uranium ores
RADIUS: 1. the length of a line segment between the center and circumference of a circle or sphere. 2. a straight line from the center to the perimeter of a circle (or from the center to the surface of a sphere). 3. a circular region whose area is indicated by the length of its radius. 4. the outer and slightly shorter of the two bones of the human forearm. 
RADOME: a housing for a radar antenna; transparent to radio waves
RADON: a radioactive gaseous element formed by the disintegration of radium; the heaviest of the inert gasses; occurs naturally (especially in areas over granite) and is considered a hazard to health
RAFFIA: 1. leaf fibers of the raffia palm tree; used to make baskets and mats etc.. 2. fiber of a raffia palm used as light cordage and in making hats and baskets. 3. feather palm of tropical Africa and Madagascar and Central and South America widely grown for commercial purposes. 
RAFFLE: dispose of in a lottery
RAFT: 1. transport on a raft. 2. travel by raft in water. 3. make into a raft. 
RAFTER: provide (a ceiling) with rafters
RAG: 1. a small piece of cloth or paper. 2. a week at British universities during which side-shows and processions of floats are organized to raise money for charities. 3. a boisterous practical joke (especially by college students). 4. play in ragtime. 5. break into lumps before sorting. 
RAGBAG: a bag in which rags are kept
RAGE: 1. be violent; as of fires and storms. 2. feel intense anger. 3. violent state of the elements. 
RAGGED: 1. being or dressed in clothes that are worn or torn. 2. worn out from stress or strain. 3. having an irregular outline. 
RAGING: very severe
RAGLAN: a garment (coat or sweater) that has raglan sleeves
RAGOUT: well-seasoned stew of meat and vegetables
RAHU: a Hindu demon who swallows the sun causing eclipses
RAY: 1. a branch of an umbel or an umbelliform inflorescence. 2. (mathematics) a straight line extending from a point. 3. any of the stiff bony spines in the fin of a fish. 4. cartilaginous fishes having horizontally flattened bodies and enlarged winglike pectoral fins with gills on the underside; most swim by moving the pectoral fins. 5. emit as rays. 
RAID: 1. an attempt by speculators to defraud investors. 2. search without warning, make a sudden surprise attack on. 3. take over (a company) by buying a controlling interest of its stock. 4. search for something needed or desired. 
RAIDER: a corporate investor who intends to take over a company by buying a controlling interest in its stock and installing new management
RAIL: 1. enclose with rails. 2. separate with a railing. 3. convey (goods etc.) by rails. 4. complain bitterly. 5. provide with rails. 6. lay with rails. 7. fish with a handline over the rails of a boat. 
RAIN: 1. precipitate as rain. 2. drops of fresh water that fall as precipitation from clouds. 3. anything happening rapidly or in quick successive. 
RAYON: a synthetic silklike fabric
RAISE: 1. raise the level or amount of something. 2. cause to be heard or known; express or utter. 3. raise from a lower to a higher position. 4. collect funds for a specific purpose. 5. summon into action or bring into existence, often as if by magic. 6. construct, build, or erect. 7. create a disturbance, especially by making a great noise. 8. cause to puff up with a leaven. 9. bid (one's partner's suit) at a higher level. 10. bet more than the previous player. 11. put forward for consideration or discussion. 12. pronounce (vowels) by bringing the tongue closer to the roof of the mouth. 13. activate or stir up. 14. establish radio communications with. 15. multiply (a number) by itself a specified number of times: 8 is 2 raised to the power 3. 16. bring (a surface or a design) into relief and cause to project. 17. invigorate or heighten. 
RAISED: 1. located or moved above the surround or above the normal position. 2. increased in amount or degree. 
RAISER: a bridge partner who increases the partner's bid
RAISIN: dried grape
RAJ: British dominion over India (1757-1947)
RAJA: 1. a prince or king in India. 2. type genus of the family Rajidae. 
RAJAB: the seventh month of the Islamic calendar
RAJPUT: a member of the dominant Hindu military caste in northern India
RAKE: 1. move through with or as if with a rake. 2. sweep the length of. 3. level or smooth with a rake. 4. gather with a rake. 
RALLY: 1. a large gathering of people intended to arouse enthusiasm. 2. the feat of mustering strength for a renewed effort. 3. a marked recovery of strength or spirits during an illness. 4. return to a former condition. 5. (sports) an unbroken sequence of several successive strokes. 
RAM: 1. a tool for driving or forcing something by impact. 2. uncastrated adult male sheep. 3. strike or drive against with a heavy impact. 
RAMA: avatar of Vishnu whose name is synonymous with God; any of three incarnations: Ramachandra or Parashurama or Balarama
RAMBLE: an aimless amble on a winding course
RAMEAU: French composer of operas whose writings laid the foundation for the modern theory of harmony (1683-1764)
RAMIE: tall perennial herb of tropical Asia with dark green leaves; cultivated for the fiber from its woody stems that resembles flax
RAMIFY: grow and send out branches or branch-like structures
RAMJET: a simple type of jet engine; must be launched at high speed
RAMMAN: god of storms and wind; corresponds to Babylonian Adad
RAMMER: a tool for driving something with force
RAMP: 1. behave violently, as if in state of a great anger. 2. furnish with a ramp. 3. be rampant. 4. creep up -- used especially of plants. 5. stand with arms or forelegs raised, as if menacing. 
RAMROD: 1. a rod used to ram the charge into a muzzle-loading firearm. 2. a harshly demanding overseer. 3. a rod used to clean the barrel of a firearm. 
RAMUS: the posterior part of the mandible that is more or less vertical
RANA: type genus of the Ranidae
RANCH: manage or run a ranch
RANCID: (used of decomposing oils or fats) having a rank smell or taste usually due to a chemical change or decomposition
RAND: 1. the basic unit of money in South Africa; equal to 100 cents. 2. United States writer (born in Russia) noted for her polemical novels and political conservativism (1905-1982). 
RANDOM: lacking any definite plan or order or purpose; governed by or depending on chance
RANGE: 1. the limits within which something can be effective. 2. have a range; be capable of projecting over a certain distance, as of a gun. 3. range or extend over; occupy a certain area. 4. lay out orderly or logically in a line or as if in a line. 5. a variety of different things or activities. 6. change or be different within limits. 7. let eat. 
RANGY: 1. adapted to wandering or roaming. 2. allowing ample room for ranging. 
RANI: (the feminine of raja) a Hindu princess or the wife of a raja
RANIER: a mountain peak in central Washington; highest peak in the Cascade Range; (14,410 feet high)
RANK: 1. very fertile; producing profuse growth. 2. very offensive in smell or taste. 3. take precedence or surpass others in rank. 4. growing profusely. 
RANKER: 1. a commissioned officer who has been promoted from enlisted status. 2. an enlisted soldier who serves in the ranks of the armed forces. 
RANSOM: 1. exchange or buy back for money; under threat. 2. payment for the release of someone. 3. the act of freeing from captivity or punishment. 
RANT: talk in a noisy, excited, or declamatory manner
RANTER: someone who rants and raves; speaks in a violent or loud manner
RANULA: a cyst on the underside of the tongue
RAP: 1. a gentle blow. 2. talk volubly. 3. genre of African-American music of the 1980s and 1990s in which rhyming lyrics are chanted to a musical accompaniment; several forms of rap have emerged. 4. strike sharply. 5. perform rap music. 
RAPE: 1. force (someone) to have sex against their will. 2. destroy and strip of its possession. 3. the crime of forcing a woman to submit to sexual intercourse against her will. 
RAPER: someone who forces another to have sexual intercourse
RAPHE: a ridge that forms a seam between two parts
RAPHUS: type genus of the Raphidae: dodos
RAPID: 1. done or occurring in a brief period of time. 2. characterized by speed; moving with or capable of moving with high speed. 
RAPIER: a straight sword with a narrow blade and two edges
RAPPEE: strong snuff made from dark coarse tobacco
RAPPEL: lower oneself with a rope coiled around the body from a mountainside
RAPPER: someone who performs rap music
RARE: 1. not widely known; especially valued for its uncommonness. 2. recurring only at long intervals. 3. not widely distributed. 4. having low density. 5. marked by an uncommon quality; especially superlative or extreme of its kind. 6. (of meat) cooked a short time; still red inside. 
RAREFY: 1. lessen the density or solidity of. 2. make more subtle or refined. 3. weaken the consistency of (a chemical substance). 
RARELY: not often
RARITY: 1. noteworthy scarcity. 2. a rarified quality. 
RASH: 1. imprudently incurring risk. 2. a series of unexpected and unpleasant occurrences. 
RASHT: city in northwestern Iran near the Caspian Sea
RASK: Danish philologist whose work on Old Norse pioneered in the field of comparative linguistics (1787-1832)
RASP: 1. scrape with a rasp. 2. utter in a grating voice. 
RASTER: the rectangular formation of parallel scanning lines that guide the electron beam on a television screen or a computer monitor
RAT: 1. desert one's party or group of friends, for example, for one's personal advantage. 2. catch rats, especially with dogs. 3. employ scabs or strike breakers in. 4. give (hair) the appearance of being fuller by using a rat. 
RATE: 1. assign a rank or rating to. 2. be worthy of or have a certain rating. 3. a quantity or amount or measure considered as a proportion of another quantity or amount or measure. 4. estimate the value of. 
RATEL: nocturnal badger-like carnivore of wooded regions of Africa and southern Asia
RATES: a local tax on property (usually used in the plural)
RATHER: 1. on the contrary; rather (or instead), he wrote her a letter". 2. to some (great or small) extent. 
RATING: standing or position on a scale
RATIO: the relative magnitudes of two quantities (usually expressed as a quotient)
RATION: 1. restrict the consumption of a relatively scarce commodity, as during war. 2. distribute in rations, as in the army. 
RATITE: flightless birds having flat breastbones lacking a keel for attachment of flight muscles: ostriches; cassowaries; emus; moas; rheas; kiwis; elephant birds
RATTAN: 1. climbing palm of Sri Lanka and southern India remarkable for the great length of the stems which are used for malacca canes. 2. the stem of various climbing palms of the genus Calamus and related genera used to make wickerwork and furniture and canes. 3. a switch made from the stems of the rattan palms. 
RATTY: 1. of or characteristic of rats. 2. dirty and infested with rats. 
RATTLE: 1. make short successive sounds. 2. shake and cause to make a rattling noise. 3. loosely connected horny sections at the end of a rattlesnake's tail. 
RATTUS: common house rats; upper incisors have a beveled edge
RAVAGE: (usually plural) a destructive action
RAVE: 1. participate in an all-night techno dance party. 2. an extravagantly enthusiastic review. 3. praise enthusiastically. 
RAVEL: 1. disentangle. 2. tangle or complicate. 
RAVEN: 1. obtain or seize by violence. 2. prey on or hunt for. 3. feed greedily. 
RAVER: a participant in a rave dancing party
RAVINE: a deep narrow steep-sided valley (especially one formed by running water)
RAVING: in a raving manner
RAW: 1. informal terms for nakedness. 2. having the surface exposed and painful. 3. not treated with heat to prepare it for eating. 4. not processed or refined. 5. brutally unfair or harsh. 6. untempered and unrefined. 7. used of wood and furniture. 8. lacking training or experience. 
RAZING: 1. the event of a structure being completely demolished and leveled. 2. complete destruction of a building. 
RAZOR: shave with a razor
REACH: 1. move forward or upward in order to touch; also in a metaphorical sense. 2. reach a destination, either real or abstract. 3. reach a point in time, or a certain state or level. 4. be in or establish communication with. 5. to extend as far as. 6. reach a goal, e.g., "make the first team". 
REACT: 1. show a response or a reaction to something. 2. act against or in opposition to. 3. undergo a chemical reaction; react with another substance under certain conditions. 
READ: 1. interpret something that is written or printed. 2. have or contain a certain wording or form. 3. look at, interpret, and say out loud something that is written or printed. 4. obtain data from magnetic tapes. 5. interpret the significance of, as of palms, tea leaves, intestines, the sky; also of human behavior. 6. indicate a certain reading; of gauges and instruments. 7. audition for a stage role by reading parts of a role. 8. to hear and understand. 
READER: 1. a person who enjoys reading. 2. a person who can read; a literate person. 3. one of a series of texts for students learning to read. 
READY: 1. completely prepared or in condition for immediate action or use or progress. 2. (of especially money) immediately available. 3. mentally disposed. 4. made suitable and available for immediate use. 
REAGIN: an immunoglobulin E that is formed as an antibody against allergens (such as pollen); attaches to cell membranes causing the release of histamine and other substances responsible for the local inflammation characteristic of an allergy
REAL: 1. no less than what is stated; worthy of the name. 2. not to be taken lightly. 3. being or occurring in fact or actuality; having verified existence; not illusory; not ghosts". 4. capable of being treated as fact. 5. of, relating to, or representing an amount that is corrected for inflation. 6. (of property) fixed or immovable. 
REAM: 1. squeeze the juice out (of a fruit) with a reamer. 2. remove by making a hole or by boring. 3. enlarge with a reamer. 
REAMER: 1. a squeezer with a conical ridged center that is used for squeezing juice from citrus fruit. 2. a drill that is used to shape or enlarge holes. 
REAP: 1. gather, as of natural products. 2. get or derive. 
REAR: 1. located in or toward the back or rear. 2. bring up. 3. the side that goes last or is not normally seen. 4. cause to rise up. 
REARM: 1. arm again. 2. arm anew. 
REASON: 1. decide by reasoning; draw or come to a conclusion. 2. an explanation of the cause of some phenomenon. 3. think logically. 4. a fact that logically justifies some premise or conclusion. 
REBATE: 1. give a reduction in the price during a sale. 2. cut a rebate in (timber or stone). 3. join with a rebate. 
REBEL: 1. take part in a rebellion; renounce a former allegiance. 2. break with established customs. 
REBIND: provide with a new binding
REBOZO: a long woolen or linen scarf covering the head and shoulders (also used as a sling for holding a baby); traditionally worn by Latin-American women
REBUFF: 1. reject outright and bluntly. 2. an instance of driving away or warding off. 
REBUKE: an act or expression of criticism and censure
REBURY: bury again
REBUS: a puzzle where you decode a message consisting of pictures representing syllables and words
RECALL: 1. a request by the manufacturer of a defective product to return the product (as for replacement or repair). 2. a call to return. 3. a bugle call that signals troops to return. 4. summon to return. 5. cause one's (or someone else's) thoughts or attention to return from a reverie or digression. 6. make unavailable; bar from sale or distribution. 7. cause to be returned. 
RECAST: 1. cast again, in a different role. 2. cast again. 3. cast or model anew. 
RECCE: reconnaissance (by shortening)
RECEDE: become faint or more distant
RECENT: new
RECESS: 1. make a recess in. 2. an enclosure that is set back or indented. 3. put into a recess. 
RECIFE: a port city of northeastern Brazil on the Atlantic
RECIPE: directions for making something
RECITE: 1. repeat aloud from memory. 2. render verbally, "recite a poem". 
RECKON: take account of
RECODE: put into a different code; rearrange mentally
RECOIL: 1. the backward jerk of a gun when it is fired. 2. a movement back from an impact. 
RECOPY: copy again
RECORD: 1. make a record of; set down in permanent form. 2. the number of wins versus losses and ties a team has had. 3. be aware of. 4. a compilation of the known facts regarding something or someone. 5. an extreme attainment; the best (or worst) performance ever attested (as in a sport). 6. a document that can serve as legal evidence of a transaction. 7. register electronically. 
RECOUP: reimburse or compensate (someone), as for a loss
RECTAL: of or involving the rectum
RECTO: right-hand page
RECTUM: the terminal section of the alimentary canal; from the sigmoid flexure to the anus
RECTUS: any of various straight muscles
RECUMB: lean in a comfortable resting position
RECUR: 1. happen or occur again. 2. return in thought or speech to something. 
RECUSE: 1. disqualify oneself (as a judge) in a particular case. 2. challenge or except to a judge as being incompetent or interested, in canon and civil law. 
RED: 1. of a color at the end of the color spectrum (next to orange); resembling the color of blood or cherries or tomatoes or rubies. 2. a tributary of the Mississippi River that flows eastward from Texas along the southern boundary of Oklahoma and through Louisiana. 
REDACT: someone who puts text into appropriate form for publication
REDBUD: small shrubby tree of eastern North America similar to the Judas tree having usually pink flowers; found in damp sheltered underwood
REDCAP: 1. a member of the military police in Britain. 2. a porter who helps passengers with their baggage at a railroad station. 
REDDEN: 1. make red. 2. turn red or redder. 
REDE: 1. give an interpretation or explanation to. 2. give advice to. 
REDEEM: 1. restore the honor or worth of. 2. to turn in (vouchers or coupons) and receive something in exchange. 3. pay off (loans or promissory notes). 4. convert into cash; of commercial papers. 
REDEYE: a night flight from which the passengers emerge with eyes red from lack of sleep
REDLY: displaying a red color
REDUCE: 1. cut down on; make a reduction in. 2. make less complex. 3. bring to humbler or weaker state or condition. 4. simplify the form of a mathematical equation of expression by substituting one term for another. 5. lower in grade or rank or force somebody into an undignified situation. 6. be the essential element. 7. lessen and make more modest. 8. make smaller. 9. narrow or limit. 10. undergo meiosis. 11. reposition (a broken bone after surgery) back to its normal site. 12. destress and thus weaken a sound when pronouncing it. 13. cook until very little liquid is left. 14. take off weight. 
REDUX: brought back
REECHO: 1. echo repeatedly, echo again and again. 2. repeat or return an echo again or repeatedly; send (an echo) back. 3. repeat back like an echo. 
REED: 1. tall woody perennial grasses with hollow slender stems especially of the genera Arundo and Phragmites. 2. United States journalist who reported on the October Revolution from Petrograd in 1917; founded the Communist Labor Party in America in 1919; is buried in the Kremlin in Moscow (1887-1920). 3. United States physician who proved that yellow fever is transmitted by mosquitoes (1851-1902). 4. a vibrator consisting of a thin strip of stiff material that vibrates to produce a tone when air streams over it. 
REEDY: 1. having a tone of a reed instrument. 2. resembling a reed in being upright and slender. 
REEF: 1. lower and bring partially inboard. 2. reduce (a sail) by taking in a reef. 3. roll up (a portion of a sail) in order to reduce its area. 
REEFY: full of submerged reefs or sandbanks or shoals
REEK: 1. smell badly and offensively. 2. be wet with sweat or blood, as of one's face. 3. give off smoke, fumes, warm vapour, steam, etc.. 
REEL: 1. a roll of photographic film holding a series of frames to be projected by a movie projector. 2. music composed for dancing a reel. 3. wind onto or off a reel. 4. a lively dance of Scottish Highlanders; marked by circular moves and gliding steps. 
REELER: a dancer of reels
REEVE: 1. pass a rope through. 2. pass through a hole or opening. 3. fasten by passing through a hole or around something. 
REFACE: 1. put a new facing on (a garment). 2. provide with a new facing. 
REFER: 1. be relevant to. 2. think of, regard, or classify under a subsuming principle or with a general group or in relation to another. 3. send or direct for treatment, information, or a decision. 4. use a name to designate. 
REFILL: 1. a prescription drug that is provided again. 2. a commercial product that refills a container with its appropriate contents. 
REFINE: 1. treat or prepare so as to put in a usable condition. 2. reduce to a fine, unmixed, or pure state; separate from extraneous matter or cleanse from impurities. 3. attenuate or reduce in vigor, strength, or validity by polishing or purifying. 4. make more precise or increase the discriminatory powers of. 
REFIT: fit out again
REFLEX: an automatic instinctive unlearned reaction to a stimulus
REFLUX: an abnormal backward flow of body fluids
REFORM: 1. make changes for improvement in order to remove abuse and injustices. 2. bring, lead, or force to abandon a wrong or evil course of life, conduct, and adopt a right one. 3. produce by cracking. 4. break up the molecules of. 5. improve by alteration or correction of errors or defects and put into a better condition. 6. change for the better. 
REFUEL: 1. provide with additional fuel, as of aircraft, ships, and cars. 2. take on more fuel, as of a plane, ship, or car. 
REFUGE: a shelter from danger or hardship
REFUND: 1. pay back. 2. the act of returning money received previously. 
REFUSE: 1. show unwillingness towards. 2. refuse to accept. 
REFUTE: 1. overthrow by argument, evidence, or proof. 2. prove to be false or incorrect. 
REGALE: provide with choice or abundant food or drink
REGARD: 1. (usually plural) a polite expression of desire for someone's welfare. 2. a feeling of friendship and esteem. 3. look at attentively. 
REGENT: 1. acting or functioning as a regent or ruler. 2. someone who rules during the absence or incapacity or minority of the country's monarch. 
REGGAE: popular music originating in the West Indies; repetitive bass riffs and regular chords played on the off beat by a guitar
REGINA: the provincial capital of Saskatchewan
REGION: 1. the extended spatial location of something. 2. a large indefinite location on the surface of the Earth. 3. the approximate amount of something (usually used prepositionally as in `in the region of'). 4. a knowledge domain that you are interested in or are communicating about. 
REGRET: 1. feel sad about the loss or absence of. 2. decline formally or politely. 3. express with regret. 
REGROW: grow anew or continue growth after an injury or interruption
REGUR: a rich black loam of India
REHASH: present or use over, with no or few changes
REHEAR: hear or try a court case anew
REHEAT: heat again
REICH: 1. the German state. 2. Austrian born psychoanalyst who lived in the United States; advocated sexual freedom and believed that cosmic energy could be concentrated in a human being (1897-1957). 3. United States composer (born in 1936). 
REID: Scottish philosopher of common sense who opposed the ideas of David Hume (1710-1796)
REIFY: consider an abstract concept to be real
REIGN: 1. have sovereign power. 2. the period during which a monarch is sovereign. 3. royal authority; the dominion of a monarch. 
REIN: 1. one of a pair of long straps (usually connected to the bit or the headpiece) used to control a horse. 2. stop or slow up one's horse or oneself by or as if by pulling the reins. 3. stop or check by or as if by a pull at the reins. 
REITER: German bacteriologist who described a disease now known as Reiter's syndrome and who identified the spirochete that causes syphilis in humans (1881-1969)
REJECT: 1. refuse to accept or acknowledge. 2. reject with contempt. 3. refuse entrance or membership. 
REJOIN: join again
RELACE: lace again
RELAY: 1. pass along. 2. control or operate by relay. 3. a fresh team to relieve weary draft animals. 4. a race between teams; each member runs or swims part of the distance. 5. electrical device such that current flowing through it in one circuit can switch on and off a current in a second circuit. 
RELATE: 1. give an account of. 2. be in a relationship with. 3. have or establish a relationship to. 
RELAX: 1. become less tense, rest, or take one's ease. 2. make less taut. 3. cause to feel relaxed. 4. become less tense, less formal, or less restrained, and assume a friendlier manner. 5. make less severe or strict. 6. become less severe or strict. 
RELIC: an antiquity that has survived from the distant past
RELICT: 1. an organism or species surviving as a remnant of an otherwise extinct flora or fauna in an environment much changed from that in which it originated. 2. geological feature that is a remnant of a pre-existing formation after other parts have disappeared. 
RELIEF: 1. the feeling that comes when something burdensome is removed or reduced. 2. the condition of being comfortable or relieved (especially after being relieved of distress). 3. (law) redress awarded by a court. 4. assistance in time of difficulty. 5. aid for the aged or indigent or handicapped. 6. sculpture consisting of shapes carved on a surface so as to stand out from the surrounding background. 7. the act of freeing a city or town that has been besieged. 
RELINE: 1. provide with a new lining. 2. put new lines on. 
RELISH: 1. spicy or savory condiment. 2. the taste experience when a savoury condiment is taken into the mouth. 
RELIVE: experience again, often in the imagination
RELOAD: place a new load on
REMAIN: be left; of persons, questions, problems, results, evidence, etc.
REMAKE: make new
REMAND: the act of sending an accused person back into custody to await trial (or the continuation of the trial)
REMARK: 1. a statement that expresses a personal opinion or belief or adds information. 2. explicit notice. 
REMEDY: provide relief for
REMIND: put in the mind of someone
REMISE: 1. an expensive or high-class hackney. 2. (fencing) a second thrust made on the same lunge (as when your opponent fails to riposte). 
REMIT: 1. send (money) in payment. 2. release from (claims, debts, or taxes). 3. refer (a matter or legal case) to another committee or authority or court for decision. 4. forgive. 5. diminish or abate. 
REMORA: marine fishes with a flattened elongated body and a sucking disk on the head for attaching to large fish or moving objects
REMOVE: 1. remove something concrete, as by lifting, pushing, or taking off, or remove something abstract. 2. remove from a position or an office. 3. shift the position or location of, as for business, legal, educational, or military purposes. 4. get rid of something abstract. 
REMUDA: the herd of horses from which those to be used the next day are chosen
REMUS: (Roman mythology) the twin brother of Romulus
RENAME: 1. assign a new name to. 2. name again or anew. 
REND: tear or be torn violently
RENDER: 1. cause to become. 2. give or supply. 3. pass down. 4. make over as a return. 5. give back. 6. coat with plastic or cement. 
RENEGE: fail to fulfill a promise or obligation
RENIN: a proteolytic enzyme secreted by the kidneys; catalyzes the formation of angiotensin and thus affects blood pressure
RENNET: a substance that curdles milk in making cheese and junket
RENNIN: an enzyme that occurs in gastric juice; causes milk to coagulate
RENO: a city in western Nevada at the foot of the Sierra Nevada Mountains; known for gambling casinos and easy divorce and remarriage
RENOIR: French impressionist painter (1841-1919)
RENT: 1. let for money. 2. hold under a lease or rental agreement; of goods and services. 
RENTAL: 1. of or relating to rent. 2. available to rent or lease. 
RENTER: an owner of property who receives payment for its use by another person
REOPEN: open again or anew
REP: 1. informal abbreviation of `representative'. 2. a fabric with prominent rounded crosswise ribs. 
REPAIR: 1. restore by replacing a part or putting together what is torn or broken. 2. a formal way of referring to the condition of something. 3. move, travel, or proceed toward some place. 
REPAND: having a slightly undulating margin
REPEAT: 1. to say, state, or perform again. 2. to say again or imitate. 3. do over. 
REPEL: 1. cause to move back by force or influence. 2. be repellent to; cause aversion in. 3. force or drive back. 
REPENT: 1. turn away from sin or do penitence. 2. feel remorse for; feel sorry for; be contrite about. 
REPINE: express discontent
REPLAY: 1. something (especially a game) that is played again. 2. play (a melody) again. 3. repeat a game against the same opponent. 4. play again. 
REPLY: the speech act of continuing a conversational exchange
REPORT: 1. to give an account or representation of in words. 2. announce as the result of an investigation or experience or finding. 3. announce one's presence. 4. make known to the authorities. 5. be responsible for reporting the details of, as in journalism. 6. complain about; make a charge against. 
REPOSE: 1. lie when dead. 2. put or confide something in a person or thing. 3. to put something (eg trust) in something. 
REPOT: put in a new, usually larger, pot
REPUTE: the state of being held in high esteem and honor
REREAD: read anew; read again
RERUN: 1. broadcast again, as of a film. 2. rerun a performance of a play, for example. 3. run again for office. 4. cause to perform again. 
RESALE: the selling of something purchased
RESCUE: 1. free from harm or evil. 2. take forcibly from legal custody. 
RESEAL: seal again
RESEAT: 1. provide with a new seat. 2. provide with new seats. 3. show to a different seat. 
RESEAU: 1. a net or mesh foundation for lace. 2. a network of fine lines used by astronomers as a reference for measurements on star photographs. 
RESECT: surgically remove a part of a structure or an organ
RESEDA: any plant of the genus Reseda
RESEED: 1. seed again or anew. 2. maintain by seeding without human intervention. 
RESELL: sell (something) again after having bought it
RESENT: feel bitter or indignant about
RESET: 1. set anew. 2. set to zero. 
RESEW: sew again
RESHIP: place on a ship again or transfer to another ship
RESIDE: make one's home in a particular place or community
RESIFT: sift anew
RESIGN: accept as inevitable
RESILE: 1. pull out from an agreement, contract, statement, etc.. 2. return to the original position or state after being stretched or compressed. 
RESIN: any of a class of solid or semisolid viscous substances obtained either as exudations from certain plants or prepared by polymerization of simple molecules
RESIST: 1. stand up or offer resistance to somebody or something. 2. withstand the force of something. 3. resist immunologically the introduction of some foreign tissue or organ. 4. refuse to comply. 
RESIZE: change the size of; make the size more appropriate
RESORT: a hotel located in a resort area
REST: 1. take a short break from one's activities in order to relax. 2. a state of inaction. 3. be at rest. 4. a support on which things can be put. 5. be inherent or innate in; . 6. not move; be in a resting position. 7. give a rest to. 8. put something in a resting position, as for support or steadying. 9. be inactive, refrain from acting. 
RESTED: not tired; refreshed as by sleeping or relaxing
RESTER: a person who rests
RESULT: 1. come about or follow as a consequence. 2. issue or terminate (in a specified way, state, etc.); end. 
RESUME: 1. take up or begin anew. 2. return to a previous location or condition. 3. assume anew. 
RET: place (flax, hemp, or jute) in liquid so as to promote loosening of the fibers from the woody tissue
RETAIL: 1. at a retail price. 2. sell on the retail market. 
RETAIN: 1. hold back within. 2. allow to remain in a place or position or maintain a property or feature. 3. secure and keep for possible future use or application. 4. keep in one's mind. 
RETAKE: 1. a shot or scene that is photographed again. 2. photograph again. 
RETAMA: small genus of Mediterranean shrubs; often included in genus Genista
RETARD: 1. cause to move more slowly or operate at a slower rate. 2. be delayed. 
RETEM: desert shrub of Syria and Arabia having small white flowers; constitutes the juniper of the Old Testament; sometimes placed in genus Genista
RETIE: tie again or anew
RETINA: the innermost light-sensitive membrane covering the back wall of the eyeball; it is continuous with the optic nerve
RETIRE: 1. go into retirement; stop performing one's work or withdraw from one's position. 2. withdraw from active participation. 3. withdraw from circulation or from the market, as of bills, shares, and bonds. 4. make (someone) retire. 5. dispose of (something no longer useful or needed). 6. lose interest. 7. cause to get out. 
RETOOL: 1. revise or reorganize, especially for the purpose of updating and improving. 2. provide (a workshop or factory) with new tools. 
RETORT: 1. a vessel where substances are distilled or decomposed by heat. 2. answer back. 
RETRAL: 1. moving or directed or tending in a backward direction or contrary to a previous direction. 2. at or near or toward the posterior. 
RETRO: a fashion reminiscent of the past
RETURN: 1. a coming to or returning home. 2. the occurrence of a change in direction back in the opposite direction. 3. bring back to the point of departure. 4. return in kind. 5. a reciprocal group action. 6. a tennis stroke that sends the ball back to the other player. 7. (American football) the act of running back the ball after a kickoff or punt or interception or fumble. 8. go or come back to place, condition, or activity where one has been before. 9. make a return. 10. return to a previous position; in mathematics. 11. submit (a report, etc.) to someone in authority. 
REUBEN: 1. (Old Testment) a son of Jacob and forefather of one of the tribes of Israel. 2. a hot sandwich with corned beef and Swiss cheese and sauerkraut on rye bread. 
REVAMP: to patch up or renovate; repair or restore
REVEAL: disclose directly or through prophets
REVEL: 1. unrestrained merrymaking. 2. celebrate noisily, often indulging in drinking; engage in uproarious festivities. 
REVERE: American silversmith remembered for his midnight ride (celebrated in a poem by Longfellow) to warn the colonists in Lexington and Concord that British troops were coming (1735-1818)
REVERS: a lapel on a woman's garment; turned back to show the reverse side
REVERT: 1. go back to a previous state. 2. undergo reversion, as in a mutation. 
REVET: 1. construct a revetment. 2. face with a layer of stone or concrete or other supporting material so as to retain. 
REVIEW: 1. appraise critically. 2. refresh one's memory. 3. a periodical that publishes critical essays on current affairs or literature or art. 4. (law) a judicial reexamination of the proceedings of a court (especially by an appellate court). 5. practice intended to polish performance or refresh the memory. 6. look at again; examine again. 7. hold a review (of troops). 8. look back upon (a period of time, sequence of events); remember. 
REVISE: make revisions in
REVIVE: 1. be brought back to life, consciousness, or strength. 2. restore from a depressed, inactive, or unused state. 
REVOKE: 1. fail to follow suit when able and required to do so. 2. cancel officially. 
REVOLT: make revolution
REVUE: a variety show with topical sketches and songs and dancing and comedians
REWARD: 1. payment made in return for a service rendered. 2. act or give recompense in recognition of someone's behavior or actions. 3. the offer of money for helping to find a criminal or for returning lost property. 
REWIRE: provide with new wiring
REWORK: use again in altered form
RHAPIS: genus of small clump-forming fan palms of China and Japan
RHEA: 1. fertility goddess in ancient Greek mythology; wife of Cronus and mother of Zeus; identified with Roman Ops and Cybele of ancient Asia Minor. 2. smaller of two tall fast-running flightless birds similar to ostriches but three-toed; found from Peru to Strait of Magellan. 3. larger of two tall fast-running flightless birds similar to ostriches but three-toed; found from Brazil to Patagonia. 
RHEIMS: a city in northeastern France to the east of Paris; scene of the coronation of most French kings; site of the unconditional German surrender in 1945 at the end of World War II
RHESUS: of southern Asia; used in medical research
RHEUM: 1. a watery discharge from the mucous membranes (especially from the eyes or nose). 2. rhubarb. 
RHEUMY: moist, damp, wet (especially of air)
RHEXIA: deer grass
RHYME: 1. compose rhymes. 2. be similar in sound, especially with respect to the last syllable. 
RHYMED: having corresponding sounds especially terminal sounds
RHYMER: a writer who composes rhymes; a maker of poor verses (usually used as terms of contempt for minor or inferior poets)
RHINAL: of or in or relating to the nose
RHINE: 1. United States parapsychologist (1895-1980). 2. a major European river carrying more traffic than any other river in the world; flows into the North Sea. 
RHYNIA: type genus of the Rhyniaceae; small leafless dichotomously branching fossil plants with terminal sporangia and smooth branching rhizomes
RHYTHM: 1. the basic rhythmic unit in a piece of music. 2. recurring at regular intervals. 3. the arrangement of spoken words alternating stressed and unstressed elements. 
RHODES: 1. British colonial financier and statesman in South Africa; made a fortune in gold and diamond mining; helped colonize the territory now known as Zimbabwe; he endowed annual fellowships for British Commonwealth and United States students to study at Oxford University (1853-1902). 2. a Greek island in the southeast Aegean Sea 10 miles off the Turkish coast; the largest of the Dodecanese; it was colonized before 1000 BC by Dorians from Argos; site of the Colossus of Rhodes. 
RHUMBA: dance the rhumba
RHUS: deciduous or evergreen shrubs and shrubby trees of temperate and subtropical North America, South Africa, eastern Asia and northeastern Australia; usually limited to nonpoisonous sumacs (see genus Toxicodendron)
RYA: a shag rug made in Sweden
RIB: 1. form vertical ribs by knitting. 2. any of the 12 pairs of curved arches of bone extending from the spine to or toward the sternum in humans (and similar bones in most vertebrates). 3. cut of meat including one or more ribs. 4. a teasing remark. 5. a riblike supporting or strengthening part of an animal or plant. 6. a projecting molding on the underside of a vault or ceiling; may be ornamental or structural. 
RIBALD: a ribald person; someone who uses vulgar and offensive language
RIBAND: a ribbon used as a decoration
RIBBED: furnished or strengthened with ribs
RIBBON: 1. any long object resembling a thin line. 2. a long strip of inked material for making characters on paper with a typewriter. 3. notion consisting of a narrow strip of fine material used for trimming. 
RIBES: a flowering shrub bearing currants or gooseberries; native to northern hemisphere
RIBHUS: one of three artisans of the Hindu gods
RIBIER: dark reddish-purple table grape of California
RIBOSE: a pentose sugar important as a component of ribonucleic acid
RICE: 1. sieve so that it becomes the consistency of rice. 2. annual or perennial rhizomatous marsh grasses; seed used for food; straw used for paper. 3. English lyricist who frequently worked with Andrew Lloyd Webber (born in 1944). 4. United States playwright (1892-1967). 
RICER: a kitchen utensil used for ricing soft foods by extruding them through small holes
RICH: 1. possessing material wealth. 2. having an abundant supply of desirable qualities or substances (especially natural resources). 3. of great worth or quality. 4. very productive. 5. high in mineral content; having a high proportion of fuel to air. 6. suggestive of or characterized by great expense. 7. containing plenty of fat, or eggs, or sugar. 8. pleasantly full and mellow. 
RICIN: a toxic protein extracted from castor beans; used as a chemical reagent; can be used as a bioweapon
RICK: pile in ricks
RICKEY: a mixed drink made of sweetened lime juice and soda water usually with liquor
RICTUS: a gaping grimace
RID: relieve from
RIDDLE: 1. pierce with many holes. 2. set a difficult problem or riddle. 3. separate with a riddle, as grain from chaff. 4. speak in riddles. 5. explain a riddle. 
RIDE: 1. be carried or travel on or in a vehicle. 2. sit and travel on the back of animal, usually while controlling its motions. 3. continue undisturbed and without interference. 4. move like a floating object. 5. be sustained or supported or borne. 6. lie moored or anchored. 7. sit on and control a vehicle. 8. climb up on the body. 9. ride over, along, or through. 10. keep partially engaged by slightly depressing a pedal with the foot. 11. copulate with. 
RIDER: 1. a traveler who actively rides an animal (as a horse or camel). 2. a clause that is appended to a legislative bill. 3. a traveler who actively rides a vehicle (as a bicycle or motorcycle). 
RIDGE: 1. extend in ridges. 2. plough alternate strips by throwing the furrow onto an unploughed strip. 3. throw soil toward (a crop row) from both sides. 4. spade into alternate ridges and troughs. 5. form into a ridge. 6. a beam laid along the edge where two sloping sides of a roof meet at the top; provides an attachment for the upper ends of rafters. 
RIDGED: having a ridge or shaped like a ridge or suggesting the keel of a ship
RIDING: 1. the sport of siting on the back of a horse while controlling its movements. 2. travel by being carried on horseback. 
RIDLEY: a marine turtle
RYE: 1. the seed of the cereal grass. 2. hardy annual cereal grass widely cultivated in northern Europe where its grain is the chief ingredient of black bread and in North America for forage and soil improvement. 3. whiskey distilled from rye or rye and malt. 
RIEL: the basic unit of money in Cambodia; equal to 100 sen
RIFF: 1. a Berber living in northern Morocco. 2. play riffs. 
RIFFLE: 1. shuffling by splitting the pack and interweaving the two halves at their corners. 2. shuffle (playing cards) by separating the deck into two parts and riffling with the thumbs so the cards intermix. 
RIFLE: 1. a shoulder firearm with a long barrel and a rifled bore. 2. go through in search of something; search through someone's belongings in an unauthorized way. 
RIFLED: of a firearm; having rifling or internal spiral grooves inside the barrel
RIFT: 1. a gap between cloud masses. 2. a narrow fissure in rock. 
RIG: 1. arrange the outcome of by means of deceit. 2. connect or secure to. 3. manipulate in a fraudulent manner. 4. equip with sails or masts. 
RIGA: a port city on the Gulf of Riga that is the capital and largest city of Latvia; formerly a member of the Hanseatic League
RIGEL: the brightest star in Orion
RIGGED: fitted or equipped with necessary rigging (sails and shrouds and stays etc)
RIGGER: 1. someone who rigs ships. 2. a long slender pointed sable brush used by artists. 3. someone who works on an oil rig. 4. a sailing vessel with a specified rig. 
RIGHT: 1. precisely, exactly. 2. immediately. 3. toward or on the right; also used figuratively. 4. correct in opinion or judgment. 5. an interjection expressing agreement. 6. completely. 7. in or into a satisfactory condition. 8. exactly. 9. intended for the right hand. 10. having the axis perpendicular to the base. 11. (of the side of cloth or clothing) facing or intended to face outward. 
RIGID: 1. incapable of or resistant to bending. 2. incapable of compromise or flexibility. 3. designating an airship or dirigible having a form maintained by a stiff unyielding frame or structure. 
RIYADH: joint capital (with Mecca) of Saudi Arabia located in the central oasis; largest city in Saudi Arabia
RILKE: German poet (born in Austria) whose imagery and mystic lyricism influenced 20th-century German literature (1875-1926)
RILL: a small channel (as one formed by soil erosion)
RIM: 1. run around the rim of. 2. furnish with a rim. 3. roll around the rim of. 
RIMA: a narrow elongated opening or fissure between two symmetrical parts
RIMMED: having a rim or a rim of a specified kind
RIMOSE: having a surface covered with a network of cracks and small crevices
RIMU: tall New Zealand timber tree
RIND: the natural outer covering of food (usually removed before eating)
RING: 1. sound loudly and sonorously. 2. a toroidal shape. 3. attach a ring to the foot of, in order to identify. 4. a platform usually marked off by ropes in which contestants box or wrestle. 5. jewelry consisting of a circlet of precious metal (often set with jewels) worn on the finger. 6. make (bells) ring, often for the purposes of musical edification. 
RINGED: 1. having colored rings around the body. 2. wearing a wedding ring; lawfully married. 
RINGER: 1. a person who is almost identical to another. 2. a contestant entered in a competition under false pretenses. 3. (horseshoes) the successful throw of a horseshoe or quoit so as to encircle a stake or peg. 
RINGS: gymnastic apparatus consisting of a pair of heavy metal circles (usually covered with leather) suspended by ropes; used for gymnastic exercises
RINK: building that contains a surface for ice skating or roller skating
RINSE: 1. wash off soap or remaining dirt. 2. the removal of soap with clean water in the final stage of washing. 3. the act of giving a light tint to the hair. 4. washing lightly without soap. 
RIOJA: dry red table wine from the Rioja region of northern Spain
RIOT: take part in a riot; disturb the public peace by engaging in a riot
RIOTER: troublemaker who participates in a violent disturbance of the peace; someone who rises up against the constituted authority
RIP: 1. move precipitously or violently. 2. cut (wood) along the grain. 3. criticize or abuse strongly and violently. 
RIPE: 1. fully developed or matured and ready to be eaten or used. 2. fully prepared or eager. 3. at the highest point of development especially in judgment or knowledge. 
RIPELY: with mature or developed appearance
RIPEN: 1. cause to ripen or develop fully. 2. grow ripe. 
RIPPER: a murderer who slashes the victims with a knife
RIPPLE: 1. stir up (water) so as to form ripples. 2. flow in an irregular current with a bubbling noise. 
RIPSAW: a handsaw for cutting with the grain of the wood
RISE: 1. move upward. 2. increase in value or to a higher point. 3. rise up. 4. an increase in cost. 5. rise in rank or status. 6. become heartened or elated. 7. exert oneself to meet a challenge. 8. increase in volume. 9. come up, of celestial bodies. 
RISEN: (of e.g. celestial bodies) above the horizon
RISER: 1. a person who rises (especially from bed). 2. a vertical pipe in a building. 3. structural member consisting of the vertical part of a stair or step. 
RISING: 1. advancing or becoming higher or greater in degree or value or status. 2. newly come into prominence. 
RISK: 1. a venture undertaken without regard to possible loss or injury. 2. the probability of becoming infected given that exposure to an infectious agent has occurred. 3. the probability of being exposed to an infectious agent. 4. expose to a chance of loss or damage. 
RISSA: a genus of Laridae
RITE: an established ceremony prescribed by a religion
RITUAL: 1. of or relating to or characteristic of religious rituals. 2. of or relating to or employed in social rites or rituals. 3. stereotyped behavior. 
RITZ: 1. Swiss hotelier who created a chain of elegant hotels (1850-1918). 2. ostentatious display of elegance. 3. an ostentatiously elegant hotel. 
RITZY: luxuriously elegant
RIVAL: 1. the contestant you hope to defeat. 2. be the rival of, be in competition with. 
RIVER: a large natural stream of water (larger than a creek)
RIVERA: socialist Mexican painter of murals (1886-1957)
RIVET: 1. fasten with a rivet or rivets. 2. hold (someone's attention). 
RIVINA: small genus of erect perennial shrubby herbs; tropical and subtropical America
ROACH: 1. comb (hair) into a roach. 2. cut the mane off (a horse). 3. European freshwater food fish having a greenish back. 
ROAD: 1. an open way (generally public) for travel or transportation. 2. a way or means to achieve something. 
ROADS: a partly sheltered anchorage
ROAN: 1. (used of especially horses) having a brownish coat thickly sprinkled with white or grey. 2. a horse having a brownish coat thickly sprinkled with white or gray. 
ROAR: 1. the sound made by a lion. 2. make a loud noise, as of wind, water, or vehicles. 3. act or proceed in a riotous, turbulent, or disorderly way. 4. laugh unrestrainedly and heartily. 
ROARER: someone who communicates vocally in a very loud voice
ROAST: (meat) cooked by dry heat in an oven
ROB: take something away by force or without the consent of the owner
ROBALO: a kind of percoid fish
ROBBER: a thief who steals from someone by threatening violence
ROBE: any loose flowing garment
ROBIN: 1. small Old World songbird with a reddish breast. 2. large American thrush having a rust-red breast and abdomen. 
ROBLE: large tree of Trinidad and Guyana having odd-pinnate leaves and violet-scented axillary racemes of yellow flowers and long smooth pods; grown as a specimen in parks and large gardens
ROBUST: 1. sturdy and strong in form, constitution, or construction. 2. strong enough to withstand or overcome intellectual challenges or adversity. 3. rough and crude. 
ROC: mythical bird of prey having enormous size and strength
ROCK: 1. move back and forth or sideways. 2. cause to move back and forth. 3. United States gynecologist and devout Catholic who conducted the first clinical trials of the oral contraceptive pill (1890-1984). 4. (figurative) someone who is strong and stable and dependable. 5. pitching dangerously to one side. 
ROCKER: 1. an attendant who rocks a child in a cradle. 2. a performer or composer or fan of rock music. 3. a teenager or young adult in the 1960s who wore leather jackets and rode motorcycles. 4. a trough that can be rocked back and forth; used by gold miners to shake auriferous earth in water in order to separate the gold. 5. an ice skate with a curved blade. 6. a curved support that permits the supported object to rock to and fro. 
ROCKET: 1. shoot up abruptly, like a rocket. 2. propel with a rocket. 3. erect European annual often grown as a salad crop to be harvested when young and tender. 4. propels bright light high in the sky, or used to propel a lifesaving line or harpoon. 
ROCKY: 1. abounding in rocks or stones. 2. liable to rock. 3. full of hardship or trials. 
ROCOCO: having excessive asymmetrical ornamentation
ROCROI: a battle in the Thirty Years' War (1643); the French defeated the Spanish invaders
ROD: 1. a long thin implement made of metal or wood. 2. any rod-shaped bacterium. 3. a visual receptor cell that is sensitive to dim light. 
RODENT: relatively small placental mammals having a single pair of constantly growing incisor teeth specialized for gnawing
RODEO: 1. an exhibition of cowboy skills. 2. an enclosure for cattle that have been rounded up. 
RODIN: French sculptor noted for his renderings of the human form (1840-1917)
ROE: 1. fish eggs or egg-filled ovary; having a grainy texture. 2. eggs of female fish. 3. the egg mass or spawn of certain crustaceans such as the lobster. 4. the eggs or egg-laden ovary of a fish. 
ROGET: English physician who in retirement compiled a well-known thesaurus (1779-1869)
ROGUE: a deceitful and unreliable scoundrel
ROYAL: 1. of or relating to or indicative of or issued or performed by a king or queen or other monarch. 2. established or chartered or authorized by royalty. 3. being of the rank of a monarch. 4. invested with royal power as symbolized by a crown. 
ROIL: make turbid by stirring up the sediments of
ROLE: normal or customary activity of a person in a particular social setting
ROLL: 1. a list of names. 2. photographic film rolled up inside a container to protect it from light. 3. move in a wavy pattern or with a rising and falling motion. 4. move, rock, or sway from side to side. 5. cause to move by turning over or in a circular manner of as if on an axis. 6. pronounce with a roll, of the phoneme /r/. 7. move by turning over or rotating. 8. occur in soft rounded shapes. 9. emit, produce, or utter with a deep prolonged reverberating sound. 10. begin operating or running. 11. shape by rolling. 12. execute a roll, in tumbling. 13. move about aimlessly or without any destination, often in search of food or employment. 14. take the shape of a roll or cylinder. 15. show certain properties when being rolled. 
ROLLED: uttered with a trill
ROLLER: 1. a grounder that rolls along the infield. 2. a long heavy sea wave as it advances towards the shore. 3. a small wheel without spokes (as on a roller skate). 4. a cylinder that revolves. 5. Old World bird that tumbles or rolls in flight; related to kingfishers. 6. pigeon that executes backward somersaults in flight or on the ground. 
ROLLO: Norse chieftain who became the first duke of Normandy (860-931)
ROMAIC: relating to modern Greece or its inhabitants or its language
ROMAN: 1. relating to or characteristic of people of Rome. 2. of or relating to or derived from Rome (especially ancient Rome). 3. characteristic of the modern type that most directly represents the type used in ancient Roman inscriptions. 4. of or relating to or supporting Romanism. 
ROMANY: 1. the Indic language of the Gypsies. 2. of or relating to the Gypsies or their language or culture. 
ROME: 1. capital and largest city of Italy; on the Tiber; seat of the Roman Catholic Church; formerly the capital of the Roman Republic and the Roman Empire. 2. the leadership of the Roman Catholic Church. 
ROMEO: an ardent male lover
ROMMEL: German field marshal noted for brilliant generalship in North Africa during World War II (1891-1944)
ROMP: 1. run easily and fairly fast. 2. win easily. 
ROMPER: 1. a person who romps or frolics. 2. a one-piece garment for children to wear at play; the lower part is shaped like bloomers. 
RON: a Chadic language spoken in northern Nigeria
RONDO: a musical form that is often the last movement of a sonata
RONEO: make copies on a Roneograph
ROOF: 1. provide a building with a roof; cover a building with a roof. 2. protective covering on top of a motor vehicle. 3. the inner top surface of a covered area or hollow space. 
ROOFED: covered with a roof; having a roof as specified (often used in combination)
ROOFER: a craftsman who lays or repairs roofs
ROOK: common gregarious Old World bird about the size and color of the American crow
ROOM: 1. an area within a building enclosed by walls and floor and ceiling. 2. space for movement. 3. opportunity for. 4. the people who are present in a room. 
ROOMY: (of buildings and rooms) having ample space
ROOST: 1. a shelter with perches for fowl or other birds. 2. settle down or stay, as if on a roost. 
ROOT: 1. take root and begin to grow. 2. plant by the roots. 3. a number that, when multiplied by itself some number of times, equals a given number. 4. the part of a tooth that is embedded in the jaw and serves as support. 5. come into existence, originate. 6. cause to take roots. 
ROOTS: the condition of belonging to a particular place or group by virtue of social or ethnic or cultural lineage
ROPE: 1. a strong line. 2. fasten with a rope. 
ROPEY: (British informal) very poor in quality
ROPER: 1. a decoy who lures customers into a gambling establishment (especially one with a fixed game). 2. a cowboy who uses a lasso to rope cattle or horses. 
ROPY: 1. of or resembling rope (or ropes) in being long and strong. 2. forming viscous or glutinous threads. 
ROPING: capturing cattle or horses with a lasso
ROSA: large genus of erect or climbing prickly shrubs including roses
ROSARY: a string of beads used in counting prayers (especially by Catholics)
ROSE: 1. of something having a dusty purplish pink color. 2. a dusty pink color. 
ROSEAU: the capital and largest city of Dominica
ROSIN: rub rosin onto
ROSTOV: a seaport on the Don River near the Sea of Azov in the European part of Russia
ROTA: 1. (Roman Catholic Church) the supreme ecclesiastical tribunal for cases appealed to the Holy See from diocesan courts. 2. a roster of names showing the order in which people should perform certain duties. 
ROTARY: relating to or characterized by rotation
ROTATE: 1. exchange on a regular basis. 2. perform a job or duty on a rotating basis. 3. cause to turn on an axis or center. 4. plant or grow in a fixed cyclic order of succession. 
ROTE: memorization by repetition
ROTGUT: any alcoholic beverage of inferior quality
ROTL: a unit of weight used in some Moslem countries near the Mediterranean; varies between one and five pounds
ROTOR: 1. the rotating armature of a motor or generator. 2. the revolving bar of a distributor. 3. rotating mechanism consisting of an assembly of rotating airfoils. 
ROTTEN: having decayed or disintegrated; usually implies foulness
ROTTER: a person who is deemed to be despicable or contemptible
ROTUND: spherical in shape
ROUGE: redden by applying rouge to
ROUGED: marked by the use of various kinds of red makeup
ROUGH: 1. having or caused by an irregular surface. 2. (of persons or behavior) lacking refinement or finesse. 3. of the margin of a leaf shape; having the edge cut or fringed or scalloped. 4. causing or characterized by jolts and irregular movements. 5. not perfected. 
ROUND: 1. from beginning to end; throughout. 2. (often plural) a series of professional calls (usually in a set order). 3. the usual activities in your day. 4. the course along which communications spread. 5. a serving to each of a group (usually alcoholic). 6. a cut of beef between the rump and the lower leg. 7. a partsong in which voices follow each other; one voice starts and others join in one after another until all are singing different parts of the song at the same time. 8. an outburst of applause. 9. make round. 10. (mathematics) expressed to the nearest integer, ten, hundred, or thousand. 11. become round, plump, or shapely. 
ROUT: 1. dig with the snout. 2. cause to flee. 3. make a groove in. 
ROUTE: 1. send documents or materials to appropriate destinations. 2. send via a specific route. 3. divert in a specified direction. 
ROUTER: 1. a worker who routes shipments for distribution and delivery. 2. (computer science) a device that forwards data packets between computer networks. 3. a power tool with a shaped cutter; used in carpentry for cutting grooves. 
ROUX: a mixture of fat and flour heated and used as a basis for sauces
ROVER: an adult member of the Boy Scouts movement
ROW: 1. propel with oars. 2. a long continuous strip (usually running horizontally). 3. a linear array of numbers, letters, or symbols side by side. 4. a continuous chronological succession without an interruption. 
ROWAN: Eurasian tree with orange-red berrylike fruits
ROWEL: a small spiked wheel at the end of a spur
ROWING: the act of rowing as a sport
RUB: 1. cause friction. 2. move over something with pressure. 3. scrape or rub as if to relieve itching. 
RUBATO: a flexible tempo; not strictly on the beat
RUBBER: 1. returned for lack of funds. 2. any of various synthetic elastic materials whose properties resemble natural rubber. 
RUBY: 1. a transparent piece of ruby that has been cut and polished and is valued as a precious gem. 2. a transparent deep red variety of corundum; used as a gemstone and in lasers. 
RUBIA: type genus of the Rubiaceae; Old World herbs and subshrubs grown for their medicinal properties and for dye substances extracted from their roots
RUBIFY: make ruby red
RUBLE: 1. the basic unit of money in Tajikistan. 2. the basic unit of money in Russia. 
RUBRIC: 1. adorn with ruby red color. 2. directions for the conduct of Christian church services (often printed in red in a prayer book). 3. a title or heading that is printed in red or in a special type. 4. category name. 
RUBUS: large genus of brambles bearing berries
RUCK: a crowd especially of ordinary or undistinguished persons or things
RUCKLE: make a hoarse, rattling sound
RUDD: European freshwater fish resembling the roach
RUDDER: 1. a hinged vertical airfoil mounted at the tail of an aircraft and used to make horizontal course changes. 2. (nautical) steering mechanism consisting of a hinged vertical plate mounted at the stern of a vessel. 
RUDDLE: 1. a red iron ore used in dyeing and marking. 2. redden as if with a red ocher color. 
RUDRA: father of the Hindu storm gods Marut; controller of nature; sometimes identified with Siva
RUE: 1. European strong-scented perennial herb with grey-green bitter-tasting leaves; an irritant similar to poison ivy. 2. leaves sometimes used for flavoring fruit or claret cup but should be used with great caution: can cause irritation like poison ivy. 3. (French) a street or road in France. 
RUFF: 1. common Eurasian sandpiper; the male has an erectile neck ruff in breeding season. 2. (card games) the act of taking a trick with a trump when unable to follow suit. 
RUFFLE: 1. trouble or vex. 2. discompose. 3. erect or fluff up. 4. disturb the smoothness of. 5. pleat or gather into a ruffle. 
RUG: floor covering consisting of a piece of thick heavy fabric (usually with nap or pile)
RUGA: (anatomy) a fold or wrinkle or crease
RUGBY: a form of football played with an oval ball
RUGGED: 1. sturdy and strong in constitution or construction; enduring. 2. very difficult; severely testing stamina or resolution. 
RUGOSE: of leaves; ridged or wrinkled
RUHR: 1. a tributary of the Rhine. 2. a major industrial and coal mining region in the valley of the Ruhr river in northwestern Germany. 
RUIN: 1. an irrecoverable state of devastation and destruction. 2. destroy or cause to fail. 3. reduce to ruins. 4. fall into ruin. 
RULE: 1. a principle or condition that customarily governs behavior. 2. prescribed guide for conduct or action. 3. decide on and make a declaration about. 4. mark or draw with a ruler. 5. directions that define the way a game or sport is to be conducted. 6. any one of a systematic body of regulations defining the way of life of members of a religious order. 7. (mathematics) a standard procedure for solving a class of mathematical problems. 8. measuring stick consisting of a strip of wood or metal or plastic with a straight edge that is used for drawing straight lines and measuring lengths. 9. decide with authority. 10. have an affinity with; of signs of the zodiac. 11. keep in check. 
RULED: subject to a ruling authority
RULER: a person who rules or commands
RULY: neat and tidy
RUM: liquor distilled from fermented molasses
RUMBA: 1. syncopated music in duple time for dancing the rumba. 2. a folk dance in duple time that originated in Cuba with Spanish and African elements; features complex footwork and violent movement. 3. a ballroom dance based on the Cuban folk dance. 
RUMBLE: 1. make a low noise. 2. a servant's seat (or luggage compartment) in the rear of a carriage. 3. a fight between rival gangs of adolescents. 
RUMEN: the first compartment of the stomach of a ruminant; here food is collected and returned to the mouth as cud for chewing
RUMEX: docks: coarse herbs and shrubs mainly native to north temperate regions
RUMMER: a large drinking glass (ovoid bowl on a stem) for drinking toasts
RUMMY: a card game based on collecting sets and sequences; the winner is the first to meld all their cards
RUMOR: tell or spread rumors
RUMP: fleshy hindquarters; behind the loin and above the round
RUMPLE: become wrinkled or crumpled or creased
RUMPUS: cause a disturbance
RUN: 1. move fast by using one's feet, with one foot off the ground at any given time. 2. have a particular form. 3. move along, of liquids. 4. the act of running; traveling on foot at a fast pace. 5. the continuous period of time during which something (a machine or a factory) operates or continues in operation. 6. unrestricted freedom to use. 7. the production achieved during a continuous period of operation (of a machine or factory etc.). 8. be operating, running or functioning. 9. cause to perform. 10. be affected by; be subjected to. 11. stretch out over a distance, space, time, or scope; run or extend between two points or beyond a certain point. 12. move about freely and without restraint, or act as if running around in an uncontrolled way. 13. change from one state to another. 14. occur persistently. 15. carry out a process or program, as on a computer or a machine. 16. carry out. 17. cause something to pass or lead somewhere. 18. make without a miss. 19. deal in illegally, such as arms or liquor. 20. cause an animal to move fast. 21. be diffused. 22. sail before the wind. 23. cover by running; run a certain distance. 24. extend or continue for a certain period of time. 25. set animals loose to graze. 26. keep company. 27. run with the ball; in such sports as football. 28. travel rapidly, by any (unspecified) means. 29. become undone. 
RUNDLE: one of the crosspieces that form the steps of a ladder
RUNE: any character from an ancient Germanic alphabet used in Scandinavia from the 3rd century to the Middle Ages
RUNG: a crosspiece between the legs of a chair
RUNIC: relating to or consisting of runes
RUNNER: 1. someone who travels on foot by running. 2. a person who is employed to deliver messages or documents. 3. a trained athlete who competes in foot races. 4. a long narrow carpet. 5. device consisting of the parts on which something can slide along. 6. fish of western Atlantic: Cape Cod to Brazil. 
RUNOFF: a final election to resolve an earlier election that did not produce a winner
RUN-ON: (verse) without a rhetorical pause between lines
RUNT: disparaging terms for small people
RUN-UP: the approach run during which an athlete gathers speed
RUNWAY: 1. a chute down which logs can slide. 2. a narrow platform extending from the stage into the audience in a theater or nightclub etc.. 3. a strip of level paved surface where planes can take off and land. 
RUPERT: English leader (born in Germany) of the Royalist forces during the English Civil War (1619-1682)
RUPIAH: the basic unit of money in Indonesia; equal to 100 sen
RURAL: 1. living in or characteristic of farming or country life. 2. of or relating to the countryside as opposed to the city. 
RUS: the medieval Russian state established by Scandinavian traders in the 9th century; the capital was first in Novgorod and then in Kiev
RUSCUS: a genus of European evergreen shrubs; sometimes placed in family Asparagaceae
RUSE: a deceptive maneuver (especially to avoid capture)
RUSH: 1. done under pressure. 2. urge to an unnatural speed. 3. act or move at high speed. 4. a sudden burst of activity. 5. (American football) an attempt to advance the ball by running into the line. 6. move fast. 7. run with the ball, in football. 
RUSHER: 1. (football) a ball carrier who tries to gain ground by running with the ball. 2. someone who migrates as part of a rush to a new gold field or a new territory. 3. a person who rushes; someone in a hurry; someone who acts precipitously. 
RUSHY: abounding in rushes
RUSKIN: British art critic (1819-1900)
RUSSET: of brown with a reddish tinge
RUSSIA: 1. a former empire in eastern Europe and northern Asia created in the 14th century with Moscow as the capital; powerful in the 17th and 18th centuries under Peter the Great and Catherine the Great when Saint Petersburg was the capital; overthrown by revolution in 1917. 2. a federation in northeastern Europe and northern Asia; formerly Soviet Russia; since 1991 an independent state. 
RUST: 1. of the brown color of rust. 2. a plant disease that produces a reddish-brown discoloration of leaves and stems; caused by various rust fungi. 3. become coated with oxide. 4. any of various fungi causing rust disease in plants. 
RUSTED: having accumulated rust
RUSTY: covered with or consisting of rust
RUSTIC: an unsophisticated country person
RUSTLE: 1. make a dry crackling sound. 2. take illegally. 3. forage food. 
RUT: 1. be in a state of sexual excitement; of male mammals. 2. a settled and monotonous routine that is hard to escape. 
RUTA: type genus of the Rutaceae; strong-scented Eurasian herbs
RUTILE: a mineral consisting of titanium dioxide in crystalline form; occurs in metamorphic and plutonic rocks and is a major source of titanium
RUTTED: full of ruts
RWANDA: a landlocked republic in central Africa; formerly a German colony
SABA: a island in the Netherlands Antilles that is the top of an extinct volcano
SABAH: a region of Malaysia in northeastern Borneo
SABAL: American dwarf fan palms
SABBAT: a midnight meeting of witches to practice witchcraft and sorcery; in the Middle Ages it was supposed to be a demonic orgy
SABER: 1. a fencing sword with a v-shaped blade and a slightly curved handle. 2. kill with a saber. 
SABICU: 1. the wood of the sabicu which resembles mahogany. 2. West Indian tree yielding a hard dark brown wood resembling mahogany in texture and value. 
SABIN: 1. a unit of acoustic absorption equivalent to the absorption by a square foot of a surface that absorbs all incident sound. 2. United States microbiologist (born in Poland) who developed the Sabin vaccine that is taken orally against poliomyelitis (born 1906). 
SABINE: 1. of or relating to or characteristic of the Sabines. 2. a member of an ancient Oscan-speaking people of the central Apennines north of Rome who were conquered and assimilated into the Roman state in 290 BC. 
SABLE: 1. of a dark somewhat brownish black. 2. the expensive dark brown fur of the marten. 3. a scarf (or trimming) made of sable. 4. marten of northern Asian forests having luxuriant dark brown fur. 
SABOT: a shoe carved from a single block of wood
SABRA: a native-born Israeli
SABRE: cut or injure with a saber
SAC: a structure resembling a bag in an animal
SACHEM: 1. a political leader (especially of Tammany Hall). 2. a chief of a North American tribe or confederation (especially an Algonquian chief). 
SACHET: a small soft bag containing perfumed powder; used to perfume items in a drawer or chest
SACK: 1. plunder (a town) after capture. 2. the quantity contained in a sack. 3. put in a sack. 4. a woman's full loose hiplength jacket. 5. the plundering of a place by an army or mob; usually involves destruction and slaughter. 
SACRAL: 1. of or relating to or near the sacrum. 2. of or relating to sacred rites. 
SACRED: 1. concerned with religion or religious purposes. 2. worthy of respect or dedication. 3. (often followed by `to') devoted exclusively to a single use or purpose or person. 
SACRUM: wedge-shaped bone consisting of five fused vertebrae forming the posterior part of the pelvis; its base connects with the lowest lumbar vertebra and its tip with the coccyx
SAD: 1. experiencing or showing sorrow or unhappiness. 2. of things that make you feel sad. 
SADAT: Egyptian statesman who (as president of Egypt) negotiated a peace treaty with Menachem Begin (then prime minister of Israel) (1918-1981)
SADDEN: 1. make unhappy. 2. come to feel sad. 
SADDLE: 1. put a saddle on. 2. cut of meat (especially mutton or lamb) consisting of part of the backbone and both loins. 3. a piece of leather across the instep of a shoe. 4. posterior part of the back of a domestic fowl. 5. load or burden; encumber. 
SADE: French soldier and writer whose descriptions of sexual perversion gave rise to the term `sadism' (1740-1814)
SADHU: (Hinduism) an ascetic holy man
SADISM: sexual pleasure obtained by inflicting harm (physical or psychological) on others
SADIST: someone who obtains pleasure from inflicting pain or others
SADLY: 1. in an unfortunate way. 2. with sadness; in a sad manner. 
SAFAR: the second month of the Islamic calendar
SAFE: 1. free from danger or the risk of harm. 2. (of an undertaking) secure from risk. 3. having reached a base without being put out. 
SAFELY: with safety; in a safe manner
SAFETY: 1. the state of being certain that adverse effects will not be caused by some agent under defined conditions. 2. a safe place. 3. a score in American football; a player is tackled behind his own goal line. 
SAG: 1. droop, sink, or settle from or as if from pressure or loss of tautness. 2. cause to sag. 
SAGA: a narrative telling the adventures of a hero or a family; originally (12th to 14th centuries) a story of the families that settled Iceland and their descendants but now any prose narrative that resembles such an account
SAGE: 1. having wisdom that comes with age and experience. 2. of the grey-green color of sage leaves. 3. any of various plants of the genus Salvia; a cosmopolitan herb. 
SAGINA: small low-growing annual or perennial herbs of temperate and cool regions
SAGO: powdery starch from certain sago palms; used in Asia as a food thickener and textile stiffener
SAHARA: the world's largest desert (3,500,000 square miles) in northern Africa
SAHIB: formerly a term of respect for important white Europeans in colonial India; used after the name
SAY: 1. the chance to speak. 2. communicate or express nonverbally. 3. utter aloud. 4. state as one's opinion or judgement; declare. 5. recite or repeat a fixed text. 6. indicate. 
SAYERS: English writer of detective fiction (1893-1957)
SAIGA: goat-like antelope of central Eurasia having a stubby nose like a proboscis
SAYING: a word or phrase that particular people use in particular situations
SAIL: 1. traverse or travel on (a body of water). 2. travel on water propelled by wind. 
SAILOR: any member of a ship's crew
SAINT: 1. a person who has died and has been declared a saint by canonization. 2. person of exceptional holiness. 
SAIPAN: 1. the largest island in the Northern Marianas and the administrative center of the commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in union with the United States. 2. US forces captured the island from the Japanese in July 1944; it was an important air base until the end of World War II. 
SAY-SO: one chap's arbitrary assertion
SAKE: 1. a reason for wanting something done. 2. Japanese alcoholic beverage made from fermented rice; usually served hot. 3. the purpose of achieving or obtaining. 
SAKI: small arboreal monkey of tropical South America with long hair and bushy nonprehensile tail
SALAAM: greet with a salaam
SALAD: food mixtures either arranged on a plate or tossed and served with a moist dressing; usually consisting of or including greens
SALAL: small evergreen shrub of Pacific coast of North America having edible dark purple grape-sized berries
SALAMI: highly seasoned fatty sausage of pork and beef usually dried
SALAT: the second pillar of Islam is prayer; a prescribed liturgy performed five times a day (preferably in a mosque) and oriented toward Mecca
SALE: 1. a particular instance of selling. 2. the general activity of selling. 3. an occasion (usually brief) for buying at specially reduced prices. 4. the state of being purchasable; offered or exhibited for selling. 5. an agreement (or contract) in which property is transferred from the seller (vendor) to the buyer (vendee) for a fixed price in money (paid or agreed to be paid by the buyer). 
SALEM: 1. capital of the state of Oregon in the northwestern part of the state on the Willamette River. 2. a city in northeastern Massachusetts; site of the witchcraft trials in 1692. 3. a city in southern India. 
SALINA: a town in central Kansas
SALINE: containing salt
SALISH: 1. a family of Mosan language spoken in northwestern United States and western Canada. 2. a member of a group of North American Indians speaking a Salishan language and living on the northwest coast of North America. 
SALYUT: either of two Soviet space stations launched in the 1970s
SALIVA: a clear liquid secreted into the mouth by the salivary glands and mucous glands of the mouth; moistens the mouth and starts the digestion of starches
SALIX: a large and widespread genus varying in size from small shrubs to large trees: willows
SALLET: a light medieval helmet with a slit for vision
SALLY: a venture off the beaten path
SALLOW: unhealthy looking
SALMI: ragout of game in a rich sauce
SALMO: type genus of the Salmonidae: salmon and trout
SALMON: 1. any of various large food and game fishes of northern waters; usually migrate from salt to fresh water to spawn. 2. a tributary of the Snake River in Idaho. 3. flesh of any of various marine or freshwater fish of the family Salmonidae. 4. a pale pinkish orange color. 
SALOL: a white powder with a pleasant taste and odor; used to absorb light in sun tan lotions or as a preservative or an antiseptic or a coating for pills in which the medicine is intended for enteric release
SALOME: woman whose dancing beguiled Herod into giving her the head of John the Baptist
SALON: 1. gallery where works of art can be displayed. 2. a shop where hairdressers and beauticians work. 3. elegant sitting room where guests are received. 
SALP: minute floating marine tunicate having a transparent body with an opening at each end
SALSA: spicy sauce of tomatoes and onions and chili peppers to accompany Mexican foods
SALT: 1. (of speech) painful or bitter. 2. sprinkle as if with salt. 3. preserve with salt. 4. add zest or liveliness to. 
SALTED: (used especially of meats) preserved in salt
SALTER: 1. someone who uses salt to preserve meat or fish or other foods. 2. someone who makes or deals in salt. 
SALTY: 1. containing or filled with salt. 2. one of the four basic taste sensations; like the taste of sea water. 
SALUKI: old breed of tall swift keen-eyed hunting dogs resembling greyhounds; from Egypt and southwestern Asia
SALUTE: 1. an act of honor or courteous recognition. 2. greet in a friendly way. 3. express commendation of. 4. become noticeable. 5. honor with a military ceremony, as when honoring dead soldiers. 6. recognize with a gesture prescribed by a military regulation; assume a prescribed position. 
SALVE: apply a salve to, usually for the purpose of healing
SALVER: a tray (or large plate) for serving food or drinks; usually made of silver
SALVO: 1. an outburst resembling the discharge of firearms or the release of bombs. 2. a sudden outburst of cheers. 
SAMARA: a winged often one-seed indehiscent fruit as of the ash or elm or maple
SAMBA: 1. music composed for dancing the samba. 2. a lively ballroom dance from Brazil. 3. a form of canasta using three decks of cards and six jokers. 4. dance the samba. 
SAMBAR: a deer of southern Asia with antlers that have three tines
SAMBRE: a river in western Europe that rises in northern France and flows generally east into Belgium where it joins the Meuse at Namur
SAME: 1. same in identity. 2. closely similar or comparable in kind or quality or quantity or degree. 3. unchanged in character or nature. 
SAMIA: silkworm moths
SAMITE: a heavy silk fabric (often woven with silver or gold threads); used to make clothing in the Middle Ages
SAMOA: 1. a constitutional monarchy on the western part of the islands of Samoa in the South Pacific. 2. a group of volcanic islands in the South Pacific midway between Hawaii and Australia; its climate and scenery and Polynesian culture make it a popular tourist stop. 
SAMOAN: of or relating to Samoa or its people or language or culture
SAMOSA: small turnover of Indian origin filled with vegetables or meat and fried and served hot
SAMPAN: an Asian skiff usually propelled by two oars
SAMPLE: 1. take a sample of. 2. all or part of a natural object that is collected and preserved as an example of its class. 
SAMSON: (Old Testament) a judge of Israel who performed herculean feats of strength against the Philistines until he was betrayed to them by his mistress Delilah
SAMUEL: (Old Testament) Hebrew prophet and judge who anointed Saul as king
SANA: the capital and largest city of Yemen; on the central plateau
SAND: 1. a loose material consisting of grains of rock or coral. 2. French writer known for works concerning women's rights and independence (1804-1876). 
SANDAL: a shoe consisting of a sole fastened by straps to the foot
SANDHI: the articulatory process whereby the pronunciation of a word or morpheme changes when it is followed immediately by another (especially in fluent speech)
SANE: mentally healthy; free from mental disorder
SANELY: 1. with good sense or in a reasonable or intelligent manner. 2. in a sane or lucid manner. 
SANGO: a trade language widely used in Chad
SANITY: normal or sound powers of mind
SANNUP: a married male American Indian
SANTEE: 1. a member of the eastern branch of the Sioux. 2. the Siouan language spoken by the Santee. 
SANTOS: a port city in southwestern Brazil on an offshore island near Sao Paulo
SAONE: a river in eastern France; rises in Lorraine and flows south to become the chief tributary of the Rhone
SAP: 1. a watery solution of sugars, salts, and minerals that circulates through the vascular system of a plant. 2. excavate the earth beneath. 
SAPOTE: brown oval fruit flesh makes excellent sherbet
SAPPER: 1. a military engineer who lays or detects and disarms mines. 2. a military engineer who does sapping (digging trenches or undermining fortifications). 
SAPPHO: the Greek lyric poet of Lesbos; much admired although only fragments of her poetry have been preserved (6th century BC)
SAPPY: abounding in sap
SARAH: (Old Testament) the wife of Abraham and mother of Isaac
SARAN: any of various thermoplastic resins used to make things
SARD: a deep orange-red variety of chalcedony
SARDIS: an ancient Greek city located in the western part of what is now modern Turkey; as the capital of Lydia it was the cultural center of Asia Minor; destroyed by Tamerlane in 1402
SARI: a dress worn primarily by Hindu women; consists of several yards of light material that is draped around the body
SARIN: a highly toxic chemical nerve agent that inhibits the activity of cholinesterase
SARONG: a loose skirt consisting of brightly colored fabric wrapped around the body; worn by both women and men in the South Pacific
SARTRE: French writer and existentialist philosopher (1905-1980)
SASH: a framework that holds the panes of a window in the window frame
SASHAY: a square dance figure; partners circle each other taking sideways steps
SASS: answer back in an impudent or insolent manner; 
SATAN: (Judeo-Christian and Islamic religions) chief spirit of evil and adversary of God; tempter of mankind; master of Hell
SATANG: 100 satangs equal 1 baht in Thailand
SATEEN: a cotton fabric with a satiny finish
SATIE: French composer noted for his experimentalism and rejection of Romanticism (1866-1925)
SATIN: a smooth fabric of silk or rayon; has a glossy face and a dull back
SATINY: having a smooth, gleaming surface reflecting light
SATYR: 1. man with strong sexual desires. 2. one of a class of woodland deities; attendant on Bacchus; identified with Roman fauns. 
SATORI: (Zen Buddhism) a state of sudden spiritual enlightenment
SATRAP: a governor of a province in ancient Persia
SATURN: 1. a giant planet that is surrounded by three planar concentric rings of ice particles; the 6th planet from the sun. 2. (Roman mythology) god of agriculture and vegetation; counterpart of Greek Cronus. 
SAUCE: 1. behave saucily or impudently towards. 2. dress (food) with a relish. 3. add zest or flavor to, make more interesting. 
SAUCER: a small shallow dish for holding a cup at the table
SAUDI: a native or inhabitant of Saudi Arabia
SAUK: a member of the Algonquian people formerly living in Wisconsin in the Fox River valley and on the shores of Green Bay
SAUL: (Old Testament) the first king of the Israelites who defended Israel against many enemies (especially the Philistines)
SAUNA: a Finnish steam bath; steam is produced by pouring water over heated rocks
SAURY: slender long-beaked fish of temperate Atlantic waters
SAURIA: true lizards; including chameleons and geckos
SAUTE: fried quickly in a little fat
SAVAGE: 1. attack brutally and fiercely. 2. criticize harshly or violently. 
SAVARA: 1. a member of the Dravidian people living in southern India. 2. a Dravidian language spoken by the Savara in southeastern India (north of Madras). 
SAVE: 1. (sports) the act of preventing the opposition from scoring. 2. to keep up and reserve for personal or special use. 3. bring into safety. 4. spend less; buy at a reduced price. 5. accumulate money for future use. 6. make unnecessary an expenditure or effort. 7. spend sparingly, avoid the waste of. 
SAVED: rescued; especially from the power and consequences of sin
SAVER: someone who saves (especially money)
SAVING: characterized by thriftiness
SAVIOR: a person who rescues you from harm or danger
SAVOY: a geographical region of historical importance; a former duchy in what is now southwestern France, western Switzerland, and northwestern Italy
SAVOR: 1. taste appreciatively. 2. give taste to. 
SAVORY: 1. morally wholesome or acceptable. 2. dwarf aromatic shrub of Mediterranean regions. 3. either of two aromatic herbs of the mint family. 4. an aromatic or spicy dish served at the end of dinner or as an hors d'oeuvre. 
SAW: 1. hand tool having a toothed blade for cutting. 2. cut with a saw. 
SAWAN: the fifth month of the Hindu calendar
SAWFLY: insect whose female has a saw-like ovipositor for inserting eggs into the leaf or stem tissue of a host plant
SAWYER: 1. one who is employed to saw wood. 2. any of several beetles whose larvae bore holes in dead or dying trees especially conifers. 
SAWPIT: a pit over which lumber is positioned to be sawed by two men with a long two-handed saw
SAX: 1. a Belgian maker of musical instruments who invented the saxophone (1814-1894). 2. a single-reed woodwind with a conical bore. 
SAXE: a French marshal who distinguished himself in the War of the Austrian Succession (1696-1750)
SAXON: of or relating to or characteristic of the early Saxons or Anglo-Saxons and their descendents (especially the English or Lowland Scots) and their language
SAXONY: an area in Germany around the upper Elbe river; the original home of the Saxons
SCAB: 1. form a scab. 2. the crustlike surface of a healing skin lesion. 
SCABBY: covered with scabs
SCAD: any of a number of fishes of the family Carangidae
SCALAR: 1. of or relating to a musical scale. 2. of or relating to a directionless magnitude (such as mass or speed etc.) that is completely specified by its magnitude. 
SCALD: 1. a burn cause by hot liquid or steam. 2. treat with boiling water. 3. heat to the boiling point. 4. burn with a hot liquid or steam. 
SCALE: 1. measure by or as if by a scale. 2. pattern, make, regulate, set, measure, or estimate according to some rate or standard. 3. take by attacking with scaling ladders. 4. reach the highest point of. 5. climb up by means of a ladder. 6. remove the scales from. 7. measure with or as if with scales. 8. size or measure according to a scale. 9. a flattened rigid plate forming part of the body covering of many animals. 
SCALED: (used of armor) having overlapping metal plates attached to a leather backing
SCALER: an electronic pulse counter used to count pulses that occur too rapidly to be recorded individually
SCALY: having the body covered or partially covered with thin horny plates, as some fish and reptiles
SCALP: 1. sell illegally, as on the black market. 2. remove the scalp of. 
SCAM: a fraudulent business scheme
SCAMP: perform hastily and carelessly
SCAMPI: large shrimp sauteed in oil or butter and garlic
SCAN: 1. examine minutely or intensely. 2. examine hastily. 3. make a wide, sweeping search of. 4. conform to a metrical pattern. 5. move a light beam over; in electronics, to reproduce an image. 6. read metrically. 
SCANT: limit in quality or quantity
SCAPE: erect leafless flower stalk growing directly from the ground as in a tulip
SCAR: mark with a scar
SCARAB: scarabaeid beetle considered divine by ancient Egyptians
SCARCE: deficient in quantity or number compared with the demand
SCARE: a sudden attack of fear
SCARF: 1. masturbate while strangling oneself. 2. unite by a scarf joint. 3. wrap in or adorn with a scarf. 
SCAT: flee; take to one's heels; cut and run
SCAUP: diving ducks of North America having a bluish-grey bill
SCEND: rise or heave upward under the influence of a natural force such as a wave
SCENE: 1. the place where some action occurs. 2. an incident (real or imaginary). 3. a consecutive series of pictures that constitutes a unit of action in a film. 4. a subdivision of an act of a play. 5. graphic art consisting of the graphic or photographic representation of a visual percept. 
SCENIC: 1. used of locations; having beautiful natural scenery. 2. of or relating to the stage or stage scenery. 
SCENT: catch the scent of; get wind of
SCHEMA: an internal representation of the world; an organization of concepts and actions that can be revised by new information about the world
SCHEME: 1. form intrigues (for) in an underhand manner. 2. devise a system or form a scheme for. 
SCHISM: 1. division of a group into opposing factions. 2. the formal separation of a church into two churches or the withdrawal of one group over doctrinal differences. 
SCHIST: any metamorphic rock that can be split into thin layers
SCHLEP: a tedious or difficult journey
SCHOOL: 1. educate in or as if in a school. 2. a building where young people receive education. 3. swim in or form a large group of fish. 4. a body of creative artists or writers or thinkers linked by a similar style or by similar teachers. 5. the period of instruction in a school; the time period when school is in session. 6. an educational institution's faculty and students. 7. a large group of fish. 
SCHORL: black tourmaline
SCHROD: flesh of young Atlantic cod weighing up to 2 pounds; also young haddock and pollock; often broiled
SCHUSS: ski downhill
SCHWA: a neutral middle vowel; occurs in unstressed syllables
SCILLA: an Old World plant of the genus Scilla having narrow basal leaves and pink or blue or white racemose flowers
SCYLLA: (Greek mythology) a sea nymph transformed into a sea monster who lived on one side of a narrow strait; drowned and devoured sailors who tried to escape Charybdis (a whirlpool) on the other side of the strait
SCION: a descendent or heir
SCIPIO: Roman general who commanded the invasion of Carthage in the second Punic War and defeated Hannibal at Zama (circa 237-183 BC)
SCYTHE: cut with a scythe
SCLAFF: 1. strike (a golf ball) such that the ground is scraped first. 2. strike (the ground) in making a sclaff. 
SCLERA: the whitish fibrous membrane (albuginea) that with the cornea forms the outer covering and protection of the eyeball
SCOFF: treat with contemptuous disregard
SCOLD: someone (especially a woman) who annoys people by constantly finding fault
SCONCE: 1. a shelter or screen providing protection from enemy fire or from the weather. 2. a small fort or earthwork defending a ford, pass, or castle gate. 3. a candle or flaming torch secured in a sconce. 4. a decorative wall bracket for holding candles or other sources of light. 
SCONE: small biscuit (rich with cream and eggs) cut into diamonds or sticks and baked in an oven or (especially originally) on a griddle
SCOOP: 1. take out or up with or as if with a scoop. 2. a hollow concave shape made by removing something. 3. the shovel or bucket of a dredge or backhoe. 4. a large ladle. 
SCOPE: an area in which something acts or operates or has power or control: "the range of a supersonic jet"
SCOPES: Tennessee highschool teacher who violated a state law by teaching evolution; in a highly publicized trial in 1925 he was prosecuted by William Jennings Bryan and defended by Clarence Darrow (1900-1970)
SCORCH: 1. a surface burn. 2. become superficially burned. 3. destroy completely by or as if by fire. 4. become scorched or singed under intense heat or dry conditions. 
SCORE: 1. make small marks into the surface of. 2. make underscoring marks. 3. write a musical score for. 4. grounds. 5. get a certain number or letter indicating quality or performance. 6. an amount due (as at a restaurant or bar). 7. a slight surface cut (especially a notch that is made to keep a tally). 8. the act of scoring in a game or sport. 9. gain points in a game. 
SCORER: 1. a player who makes a score in a game or contest. 2. a logger who marks trees to be felled. 
SCOT: a native or inhabitant of Scotland
SCOTCH: make a small cut or score into
SCOTER: large black diving duck of northern parts of the northern hemisphere
SCOTS: of or relating to or characteristic of Scotland or its people or culture or its English dialect or Gaelic language
SCOUR: 1. examine minutely. 2. rub hard or scrub. 
SCOURS: diarrhea in livestock
SCOUT: 1. a Boy Scout or Girl Scout. 2. someone employed to discover and recruit talented persons (especially in the worlds of entertainment or sports). 3. someone who can find paths through unexplored territory. 4. explore, often with the goal of finding something or somebody. 
SCOW: 1. any of various flat-bottomed boats with sloping ends. 2. a barge carrying bulk materials in an open hold. 
SCOWL: frown with displeasure
SCRAG: 1. lean end of the neck. 2. the lean end of a neck of veal. 
SCRAM: leave immediately; used usually in the imperative form
SCRAP: make into scrap or refuse
SCRAPE: 1. scratch repeatedly. 2. a deep bow with the foot drawn backwards (indicating excessive humility). 3. make by scraping. 4. bend the knees and bow in a servile manner. 5. gather (money or other resources) together over time. 
SCREAM: 1. sharp piercing cry. 2. make a loud, piercing sound. 
SCREED: 1. a long monotonous harangue. 2. a long piece of writing. 3. an accurately levelled strip of material placed on a wall or floor as guide for the even application of plaster or concrete. 
SCREEN: 1. test or examine for the presence of disease or infection. 2. examine in order to test suitability. 3. project onto a screen for viewing. 4. prevent from entering. 5. partition consisting of a decorative frame or panel that serves to divide a space. 6. examine methodically. 
SCREW: 1. turn like a screw. 2. cause to penetrate, as with a circular motion. 3. tighten or fasten by means of screwing motions. 
SCRY: divine by gazing into crystals
SCRIBE: 1. score a line on with a pointed instrument, as in metalworking. 2. informal terms for journalists. 
SCRIM: a firm open-weave fabric used for a curtain in the theater
SCRIMY: dirty and disgusting
SCRIMP: subsist on a meager allowance
SCRIP: a certificate whose value is recognized by the payer and payee; scrip is not currency but may be convertible into currency
SCRIPT: 1. write a script for. 2. a particular orthography or writing system. 
SCROD: young Atlantic cod or haddock especially one split and boned for cooking
SCROLL: 1. a document that can be rolled up (as for storage). 2. move through text or graphics in order to display parts that do not fit on the screen. 
SCRUB: 1. (of domestic animals) not selectively bred. 2. wash thoroughly. 
SCRUM: (rugby) the method of beginning play in which the forwards of each team crouch side by side with locked arms; play starts when the ball is thrown in between them and the two sides compete for possession
SCUD: 1. the act of moving along swiftly (as before a gale). 2. run before a gale. 
SCUFF: 1. get or become scuffed. 2. walk without lifting the feet. 3. mar by scuffing. 4. poke at with the foot or toe. 
SCULL: 1. propel with sculls. 2. each of a pair of short oars that are used by a single oarsman. 3. a racing shell that is propelled by sculls. 
SCULPT: 1. create by shaping stone or wood or any other hard material. 2. shape (a material like stone or wood) by whittling away at it. 
SCUM: 1. a film of impurities or vegetation that can form on the surface of a liquid. 2. remove the scum from. 
SCUMMY: covered with scum
SCUP: 1. flesh of fish found in colder waters of northern Atlantic coast of the United States. 2. porgy of southern Atlantic coastal waters of North America. 3. found in Atlantic coastal waters of North America from South Carolina to Maine; esteemed as a panfish. 
SCURF: (botany) a covering that resembles scales or bran that covers some plant parts
SCURFY: having or producing or covered with scurf
SCURRY: to move about or proceed hurriedly
SCURVY: a condition caused by deficiency of ascorbic acid (vitamin C)
SCUT: a short erect tail
SCUTE: large bony or horny plate as on an armadillo or turtle or the underside of a snake
SEA: 1. a division of an ocean or a large body of salt water partially enclosed by land. 2. turbulent water with swells of considerable size. 
SEABAG: a cylindrical drawstring bag used by sailors to hold their clothing and other gear
SEAL: 1. close with or as if with a seal. 2. decide irrevocably. 3. a stamp affixed to a document (as to attest to its authenticity or to seal it). 4. a finishing coat applied to exclude moisture. 5. fastener that provides a tight and perfect closure. 6. any of numerous marine mammals that come on shore to breed; chiefly of cold regions. 7. make tight; secure against leakage. 8. affix a seal to. 9. hunt seals. 
SEALED: 1. established irrevocably. 2. closed or secured with or as if with a seal. 3. undisclosed for the time being. 4. determined irrevocably. 5. having been paved. 6. covered with a waterproof coating. 
SEALER: an official who affixes a seal to a document
SEAM: 1. put together with a seam. 2. a stratum of ore or coal thick enough to be mined with profit. 
SEAMAN: muckraking United States journalist who exposed bad conditions in mental institutions (1867-1922)
SEAMED: having or joined by a seam or seams
SEAMY: 1. showing a seam. 2. morally degraded. 
SEANCE: a meeting of spiritualists
SEAR: make very hot and dry
SEARCH: 1. try to locate or discover, or try to establish the existence of. 2. search or seek. 3. an operation that determines whether one or more of a set of items has a specified property. 4. subject to a search. 5. boarding and inspecting a ship on the high seas. 
SEARED: having the surface burned quickly with intense heat
SEASON: 1. lend flavor to. 2. make fit. 3. a recurrent time marked by major holidays. 
SEAT: 1. show to a seat; assign a seat for. 2. furniture that is designed for sitting on. 3. put a seat on a chair. 4. provide with seats. 5. place or attach firmly in or on a base. 6. place in or on a seat. 7. a part of a machine that supports or guides another part. 8. the cloth covering for the buttocks. 9. be able to seat. 
SEATED: (of persons) having the torso erect and legs bent with the body supported on the buttocks
SEAWAY: a lane at sea that is a regularly used route for vessels
SEBUM: the oily secretion of the sebaceous glands; with perspiration it moistens and protects the skin
SEC: (of champagne) moderately dry
SECALE: cereal grass widely cultivated for its grain: rye
SECANT: 1. a straight line that intersects a curve at two or more points. 2. ratio of the hypotenuse to the adjacent side of a right-angled triangle. 
SECEDE: withdraw from an organization or communion
SECKEL: small yellowish- to reddish-brown pear
SECOND: 1. in the second place. 2. following the first in an ordering or series. 3. a 60th part of a minute of arc. 4. the official attendant of a contestant in a duel or boxing match. 5. a speech seconding a motion. 6. a part or voice or instrument or orchestra section lower in pitch than or subordinate to the first. 
SECRET: 1. not open or public; kept private or not revealed. 2. information known only to a special group. 3. communicated covertly. 4. not expressed. 5. indulging only covertly. 6. the next to highest level of official classification for documents. 
SECT: a subdivision of a larger religious group
SECTOR: 1. a plane figure bounded by two radii and the included arc of a circle. 2. a social group that forms part of the society or the economy. 3. a particular aspect of life or activity. 4. the minimum track length that can be assigned to store information; unless otherwise specified a sector of data consists of 512 bytes. 5. a portion of a military position. 6. measuring instrument consisting of two graduated arms hinged at one end. 
SECURE: 1. not likely to fail or give way. 2. free from fear or doubt; easy in mind. 3. free from danger or risk. 
SEDAN: 1. a car that is closed and that has front and rear seats and two or four doors. 2. a closed litter for one passenger. 
SEDATE: characterized by dignity and propriety
SEDER: (Judaism) the ceremonial dinner on the first night (or both nights) of Passover
SEDGE: grasslike or rushlike plant growing in wet places having solid stems, narrow grasslike leaves and spikelets of inconspicuous flowers
SEDGY: covered with sedges (grasslike marsh plants)
SEDUCE: 1. induce to have sex. 2. lure or entice away from duty, principles, or proper conduct. 
SEDUM: any of various plants of the genus Sedum
SEE: 1. perceive by sight or have the power to perceive by sight. 2. deem to be. 3. be careful or certain to do something; make certain of something. 4. go to see for professional or business reasons. 5. go to see for a social visit. 6. receive as a specified guest. 7. see and understand, have a good eye. 8. deliberate or decide. 9. observe as if with an eye. 10. accompany or escort. 11. match or meet. 
SEED: 1. go to seed; shed seeds. 2. help (an enterprise) in its early stages of development by providing seed money. 3. bear seeds. 4. distribute (players or teams) so that outstanding teams or players will not meet in the early rounds. 5. sprinkle with silver iodide particles to disperse and cause rain. 6. inoculate with microorganisms. 7. remove the seeds from. 
SEEDED: 1. (of the more skilled contestants) selectively arranged in the draw for position in a tournament so that they meet each other in later rounds. 2. having the seeds extracted. 3. having seeds as specified. 4. having or supplied with seeds. 5. sprinkled with seed. 
SEEDER: 1. a person who seeds clouds. 2. a mechanical device that sows grass seed or grain evenly over the ground. 3. a kitchen utensil that removes seeds from fruit. 
SEEDY: full of seeds
SEEING: having vision, not blind
SEEK: 1. try to get or reach. 2. go to or towards. 3. inquire for. 
SEEKER: 1. someone making a search or inquiry. 2. a missile equipped with a device that is attracted toward some kind of emission (heat or light or sound or radio waves). 
SEEL: sew up the eyelids of hawks and falcons
SEEM: 1. appear to exist. 2. appear to one's own mind or opinion. 
SEEP: pass gradually or leak through or as if through small openings
SEER: an observer who perceives visually
SEESAW: 1. a plaything consisting of a board balanced on a fulcrum; the board is ridden up and down by children at either end. 2. move up and down as if on a seesaw. 
SEETHE: 1. be in an agitated emotional state. 2. foam as if boiling. 3. boil vigorously. 
SEGNO: (music) a notation written at the beginning or end of a passage that is to be repeated
SEGUE: proceed without interruption; in music or talk
SEICHE: a wave on the surface of a lake or landlocked bay; caused by atmospheric or seismic disturbances
SEIDEL: a glass for beer
SEYHAN: a Turkish river flowing south southwest into the Mediterranean
SEINE: 1. fish with a seine; catch fish with a seine. 2. a large fishnet that hangs vertically, with floats at the top and weights at the bottom. 
SEIZE: 1. take hold of; grab. 2. take or capture by force. 3. hook by a pull on the line. 4. affect. 
SELENE: 1. (Greek mythology) goddess of the Moon in ancient mythology; identified with Roman Luna. 2. a genus of Carangidae. 
SELF: 1. (used as a combining form) relating to--of or by or to or from or for--the self. 2. a person considered as a unique individual. 
SELJUK: of or relating to the Seljuks
SELL: 1. exchange or deliver for money or its equivalent. 2. be sold at a certain price or in a certain way. 3. persuade somebody to accept something. 4. give up for a price or reward. 5. be approved of or gain acceptance. 6. be responsible for the sale of. 
SELLER: someone who promotes or exchanges goods or services for money
SELMA: a town in central Alabama on the Alabama river; in 1965 it was the center of a drive to register Black voters
SELSYN: a system consisting of a generator and a motor so connected that the motor will assume the same relative position as the generator; the generator and the motor are synchronized
SEMEN: the thick white fluid containing spermatozoa that is ejaculated by the male genital tract
SEMITE: of or relating to or characteristic of Semites
SEN: a fractional monetary unit of Japan and Indonesia and Cambodia; equal to one hundredth of a yen or rupiah or riel
SENATE: assembly possessing high legislative powers
SEND: 1. cause to go somewhere. 2. to cause or order to be taken, directed, or transmitted to another place. 3. transfer. 
SENDEE: the intended recipient of a message
SENDER: someone who transmits a message
SENE: 100 sene equal 1 tala in Western Samoa
SENECA: 1. Roman statesman and philosopher who was an advisor to Nero; his nine extant tragedies are modeled on Greek tragedies (circa 4 BC - 65 AD). 2. a member of the Iroquoian people formerly living in New York State south of Lake Ontario. 3. the Iroquoian language spoken by the Seneca. 
SENEGA: 1. dried root of two plants of the genus Polygala containing an irritating saponin. 2. perennial bushy herb of central and southern United States having white flowers with green centers and often purple crest; similar to Seneca snakeroot. 
SENHOR: a Portuguese title of respect; equivalent to English `Mr'
SENIOR: 1. older; higher in rank; longer in length of tenure or service. 2. used of the fourth and final year in United States high school or college. 
SENITI: 100 seniti equal 1 pa'anga in Tonga
SENNA: any of various plants of the genus Senna having pinnately compound leaves and showy usually yellow flowers; many are used medicinally
SENNIT: flat braided cordage that is used on ships
SENOR: a Spanish title or form of address for a man; similar to the English `Mr' or `sir'
SENORA: a Spanish title or form of address for a married woman; similar to the English `Mrs' or `madam'
SENSE: 1. a general conscious awareness. 2. detect some circumstance or entity automatically. 3. the faculty through which the external world is apprehended. 4. a natural appreciation or ability. 5. comprehend. 
SENSED: detected by instinct or inference rather than by recognized perceptual cues
SENT: caused or enabled to go or be conveyed or transmitted
SEOUL: the capital of South Korea and the largest city of Asia; located in northwestern South Korea
SEPAL: one of the green parts that form the calyx of a flower
SEPIA: 1. rich brown pigment prepared from the ink of cuttlefishes. 2. type genus of the Sepiidae. 
SEPSIS: the presence of pus-forming bacteria or their toxins in the blood or tissues
SEPTAL: of or relating to a septum
SEPTET: 1. seven performers or singers who perform together. 2. a set of seven similar things considered as a unit. 3. seven people considered as a unit. 4. a musical composition written for seven performers. 
SEPTIC: 1. containing or resulting from disease-causing organisms. 2. of or relating to or caused by putrefaction. 
SEPTUM: 1. (anatomy) a dividing partition between two tissues or cavities. 2. a partition or wall especially in an ovary. 
SEQUEL: 1. something that follows something else. 2. a part added to a book or play that continues and extends it. 
SEQUIN: adornment consisting of a small piece of shiny material used to decorate clothing
SERAPE: a long brightly colored shawl; worn mainly by Mexican men
SERAPH: an angel of the first order; usually portrayed as the winged head of a child
SERBIA: a historical region in central and northern Yugoslavia; Serbs settled the region in the 6th and 7th centuries
SERENE: completely clear and fine
SERER: a West African language closely related to Fula; spoken primarily in Senegal and Gambia
SERF: (Middle Ages) a person who is bound to the land and owned by the feudal lord
SERGE: a twilled woolen fabric
SERGER: a sewing machine that overcasts the raw edges of a fabric with a V-shaped stitch
SERIAL: 1. a serialized set of programs. 2. pertaining to or composed in serial technique. 3. pertaining to or occurring in or producing a series. 4. of or relating to the sequential performance of multiple operations. 
SERIES: 1. similar things placed in order or happening one after another. 2. a periodical that appears at scheduled times. 3. (sports) several contests played successively by the same teams. 4. (electronics) connection of components in such a manner that current flows first through one and then through the other. 5. a group of postage stamps having a common theme or a group of coins or currency selected as a group for study or collection. 6. (mathematics) the sum of a finite or infinite sequence of expressions. 
SERIF: a short line at the end of the main strokes of a character
SERIN: any of various brown and yellow finches of parts of Europe
SERINE: a sweetish crystalline amino acid involved in the synthesis by the body of cysteine
SERMON: 1. an address of a religious nature (usually delivered during a church service). 2. a moralistic rebuke. 
SEROUS: of or producing or containing serum
SEROW: short-horned dark-coated goat antelope of mountain areas of southern and southeastern Asia
SERUM: an amber, watery fluid, rich in proteins, that separates out when blood coagulates
SERVAL: slender long-legged African wildcat having large untufted ears and tawny black-spotted coat
SERVE: 1. serve a purpose, role, or function. 2. do duty or hold offices; serve in a specific function. 3. contribute or conduce to. 4. help to some food; help with food or drink. 5. provide (usually but not necessarily food). 6. devote (part of) one's life or efforts to, as of countries, institutions, or ideas. 7. promote, benefit, or be useful or beneficial to. 8. spend time in prison or in a labor camp. 9. work for or be a servant to. 10. deliver a warrant or summons to someone. 11. do military service. 12. mate with. 13. put the ball into play. 
SERVER: 1. (court games) the player who serves to start a point. 2. (computer science) a computer that provides client stations with access to files and printers as shared resources to a computer network. 3. utensil used in serving food or drink. 
SERVO: control system that converts a small mechanical motion into one requiring much greater power; may include a negative feedback system
SESAME: East Indian annual erect herb; source of sesame seed or benniseed and sesame oil
SESELI: a rosid dicot genus that includes moon carrots
SESTET: a rhythmic group of six lines of verse
SET: 1. a group of things of the same kind that belong together and are so used. 2. (mathematics) an abstract collection of numbers or symbols. 3. several exercises intended to be done in series. 4. being below the horizon. 5. the act of putting something in position. 6. set to a certain position or cause to operate correctly. 7. disappear beyond the horizon. 8. the descent of a heavenly body below the horizon. 9. (psychology) being temporarily ready to respond in a particular way. 10. apply or start. 11. establish as the highest level or best performance. 12. fix in a border. 13. locate. 14. put into a position that will restore a normal state. 15. insert (a nail or screw below the surface, as into a countersink). 16. give a fine, sharp edge to a knife or razor. 
SETA: 1. stalk of a moss capsule. 2. a stiff hair or bristle. 
SETH: (Old Testament) third son of Adam and Eve; given by God in place of the murdered Abel
SETTEE: a small sofa
SETTER: a long-haired dog formerly trained to crouch on finding game but now to point
SETTLE: 1. settle into a position, usually on a surface or ground. 2. settle conclusively; come to terms. 3. take up residence and become established. 4. become settled or established and stable in one's residence or life style. 5. become resolved, fixed, established, or quiet. 6. establish or develop as a residence. 7. come to rest. 8. arrange or fix in the desired order. 9. accept despite lack of complete satisfaction. 10. end a legal dispute by arriving at a settlement. 11. dispose of; make a financial settlement. 12. become clear by the sinking of particles. 13. cause to become clear by forming a sediment (of liquids). 14. get one's revenge for a wrong or an injury. 15. form a community. 
SET-TO: a brief but vigorous fight
SETUP: the way something is organized or arranged
SEURAT: French painter who developed pointillism (1859-1891)
SEVEN: being one more than six
SEVER: set or keep apart
SEVERE: 1. intensely or extremely bad or unpleasant in degree or quality. 2. unsparing and uncompromising in discipline or judgment. 3. very bad in degree or extent. 
SEVERN: 1. a river in Ontario that flows northeast into Hudson Bay. 2. a river in England and Wales flowing into the Bristol Channel; the longest river in Great Britain. 
SEW: 1. fasten by sewing; do needlework. 2. create (clothes) with cloth. 
SEWAGE: waste matter carried away in sewers or drains
SEWED: fastened with stitches
SEWER: 1. a waste pipe that carries away sewage or surface water. 2. someone who sews. 
SEWING: 1. joining or attaching by stitches. 2. needlework on which you are working with needle and thread. 
SEX: 1. tell the sex (of young chickens). 2. all of the feelings resulting from the urge to gratify sexual impulses. 3. the properties that distinguish organisms on the basis of their reproductive roles. 
SEXED: 1. having sexual differentiation. 2. characterized by sexuality. 
SEXY: marked by or tending to arouse sexual desire or interest
SEXISM: discriminatory or abusive behavior towards members of the opposite sex
SEXIST: discriminatory on the basis of sex (usually said of men's attitude toward women)
SEXT: the fourth of the seven canonical hours; about noon
SEXTET: 1. a musical composition written for six performers. 2. six performers or singers who perform together. 3. a set of six similar things considered as a unit. 4. six people considered as a unit. 
SEXTON: 1. United States poet (1928-1974). 2. an officer of the church who is in charge of sacred objects. 
SEXUAL: 1. of or relating to or characterized by sexuality. 2. having or involving sex. 
SFAX: the second largest city in Tunisia; located in eastern Tunisia near a phosphate region
SHABBY: mean and unworthy and despicable
SHAD: 1. bony flesh of herring-like fish usually caught during their migration to fresh water for spawning; especially of Atlantic coast. 2. herring-like food fishes that migrate from the sea to fresh water to spawn. 
SHADE: 1. relative darkness caused by light rays being intercepted by an opaque body. 2. represent the effect of shade or shadow on. 3. protect from light, heat, or view. 4. pass from one quality such as color to another by a slight degree. 5. a representation of the effect of shadows in a picture or drawing (as by shading or darker pigment). 6. vary slightly. 
SHADED: 1. protected from heat and light with shade or shadow. 2. (of pictures or drawings) drawn or painted with degrees or gradations of shadow. 
SHADY: filled with shade
SHADOW: 1. follow, usually without the person's knowledge. 2. a premonition of something adverse. 3. refuge from danger or observation. 4. a dominating and pervasive presence. 5. an inseparable companion. 6. cast a shadow over. 7. make appear small by comparison. 
SHAFT: 1. equip with a shaft. 2. a long rod or pole (especially the handle of an implement or the body of a weapon like a spear or arrow). 3. a vertical passageway through a building (as for an elevator). 4. (architecture) upright consisting of the vertical part of a column. 5. a long vertical passage sunk into the earth, as for a mine or tunnel. 
SHAG: 1. dance the shag. 2. a matted tangle of hair or fiber. 3. a fabric with long coarse nap. 4. a lively dance step consisting of hopping on each foot in turn. 
SHAH: title for the former hereditary monarch of Iran
SHAKE: 1. move or cause to move back and forth. 2. move with or as if with a tremor. 3. undermine or cause to waver. 4. get rid of. 5. bring to a specified condition by or as if by shaking. 6. shake (a body part) to communicate a greeting, feeling, or cognitive state. 
SHAKER: 1. a person who wields power and influence. 2. a member of Christian group practicing celibacy and communal living and common possession of property and separation from the world. 3. a container in which something can be shaken. 
SHAKY: vibrating slightly and irregularly; as e.g. with fear or cold or like the leaves of an aspen in a breeze
SHAKTI: the female or generative principle; wife of Siva and a benevolent form of Devi
SHALE: a sedimentary rock formed by the deposition of successive layers of clay
SHALLU: sorghum having slender dry stalks and small hard grains; introduced into United States from India
SHAMAN: in societies practicing shamanism: one acting as a medium between the visible and spirit worlds; practices sorcery for healing or divination
SHAME: 1. a painful emotion resulting from an awareness of inadequacy or guilt. 2. compel through a sense of shame. 3. cause to be ashamed. 4. surpass or beat by a wide margin. 
SHANG: the imperial dynasty ruling China from about the 18th to the 12th centuries BC
SHANK: 1. hit (a golf ball) with the heel of a club, causing the ball to veer in the wrong direction. 2. the part of the human leg between the knee and the ankle. 3. cylinder forming a long narrow part of something. 4. cylinder forming the part of a bolt between the thread and the head. 5. cylinder forming the part of a bit by which it is held in the drill. 6. the narrow part of the shoe connecting the heel and the wide part of the sole. 7. a poor golf stroke in which the heel of the club hits the ball. 
SHANNY: European scaleless blenny
SHAPE: 1. any spatial attributes (especially as defined by outline). 2. make something, usually for a specific function. 3. a concrete representation of an otherwise nebulous concept. 4. give shape or form to. 
SHAPED: 1. shaped to fit by or as if by altering the contours of a pliable mass (as by work or effort). 2. having the shape of. 
SHAPER: a machine tool for shaping metal or wood
SHARD: a broken piece of a brittle artifact
SHARE: 1. have in common. 2. use jointly or in common. 3. give out as one's portion or share. 4. communicate. 
SHARED: have in common; held or experienced in common
SHARI: an African river that flows northwest into Lake Chad
SHARK: 1. play the shark; act with trickery. 2. hunt shark. 3. a person who is unusually skilled in certain ways. 
SHARP: 1. a musical notation indicating one half step higher than the note named. 2. a long thin sewing needle with a sharp point. 3. harsh. 4. keenly and painfully felt; as if caused by a sharp edge or point. 5. having or made by a thin edge or sharp point; suitable for cutting or piercing. 6. (of a musical note) raised in pitch by one chromatic semitone. 7. very sudden and in great amount or degree. 8. quick and forceful. 
SHASTA: 1. a member of the Indian people of northern California and southern Oregon. 2. a volcanic mountain peak in the Cascade Range in northern California (14,162 feet high). 3. the Shastan language spoken by the Shasta. 
SHAVE: 1. remove body hair with a razor. 2. cut closely. 3. cut the price of. 4. make shavings of or reduce to shavings. 5. touch the surface of lightly. 
SHAVEN: having the beard or hair cut off close to the skin
SHAVER: 1. an adult male who shaves. 2. a razor powered by an electric motor. 
SHAWL: cloak consisting of an oblong piece of cloth used to cover the head and shoulders
SHAWM: a medieval oboe
SHEAR: 1. cut with shears. 2. a large edge tool that cuts sheet metal by passing a blade through it. 3. cut or cut through with shears. 4. become deformed by forces tending to produce a shearing strain. 
SHEARS: large scissors with strong blades
SHEATH: 1. a protective covering (as for a knife or sword). 2. an enveloping structure or covering enclosing an animal or plant organ or part. 
SHEBAT: the fifth month of the civil year: the eleventh month of the ecclesiastical year in the Jewish calendar (in January and February)
SHED: 1. get rid of. 2. cast off hair, skin, horn, or feathers. 
SHEEP: 1. woolly usually horned ruminant mammal related to the goat. 2. a timid defenseless simpleton who is readily preyed upon. 3. a docile and vulnerable person who would rather follow than make an independent decision. 
SHEER: 1. directly. 2. straight up or down without a break. 
SHEET: 1. come down as if in sheets. 2. cover with a sheet, as if by wrapping. 3. bed linen consisting of a large rectangular piece of cotton or linen cloth; used in pairs. 4. a flat artifact that is thin relative to its length and width. 5. (nautical) a line (rope or chain) that regulates the angle at which a sail is set in relation to the wind. 
SHEIK: the leader of an Arab village or family
SHEKEL: the basic unit of money in Israel
SHELF: a support that consists of a horizontal surface for holding objects
SHELL: 1. ammunition consisting of a cylindrical metal casing containing an explosive charge and a projectile; fired from a large gun. 2. the material that forms the hard outer covering of many animals. 3. hit the pitches of hard and regularly. 4. look for and collect shells by the seashore. 5. a rigid covering that envelops an object. 6. remove from its shell or outer covering. 7. the housing or outer covering of something. 8. the hard largely calcareous covering of a mollusc or a brachiopod. 9. fall out of the pod or husk. 
SHELVE: place on a shelf
SHEM: (Old Testament) eldest son of Noah
SHEMA: a liturgical prayer (considered to be the essence of Jewish religion) that is recited at least twice daily by adult Jewish males to declare their faith
SHERPA: a member of the Himalayan people living in Nepal and Tibet who are famous for their skill as mountaineers
SHERRY: dry to sweet amber wine from the Jerez region of southern Spain or similar wines produced elsewhere; usually drunk as an aperitif
SHY: 1. start suddenly, as from fright. 2. short. 3. wary and distrustful; disposed to avoid persons or things. 
SHIAH: one of the two main branches of orthodox Islam; mainly in Iran
SHIELD: 1. protect, hide, or conceal from danger or harm. 2. armor carried on the arm to intercept blows. 
SHIFT: 1. an event in which something is displaced without rotation. 2. the time period during which you are at work. 3. move from one setting or context to another. 4. move and exchange for another. 5. change place or direction. 6. change in quality. 7. use a shift key on a keyboard. 8. change phonetically as part of a systematic historical change. 9. change gears. 
SHIISM: the branch of Islam that regards Ali as the legitimate successor to Mohammed and rejects the first three caliphs
SHIITE: a member of the branch of Islam that regards Ali as the legitimate successor to Mohammed and rejects the first three caliphs
SHIKSA: a derogatory term used by Jews to refer to non-Jewish women
SHYLY: in a shy or timid or bashful manner
SHILL: act as a shill
SHILOH: the second great battle of the American Civil War (1862); the battle ended with the withdrawal of Confederate troops but it was not a Union victory
SHIM: a thin wedge of material (wood or metal or stone) for driving into crevices
SHIMMY: 1. tremble or shake. 2. lively dancing (usually to ragtime music) with much shaking of the shoulders and hips. 3. dance a shimmy. 
SHIN: 1. the front part of the human leg between the knee and the ankle. 2. a cut of meat from the lower part of the leg. 3. the 22nd letter of the Hebrew alphabet. 
SHINA: a Dardic language spoken in northern Kashmir
SHINE: 1. emit light; be bright, as of the sun or a light. 2. be distinguished or eminent. 3. be clear and obvious. 4. throw or flash the light of (a lamp). 
SHINER: 1. a swollen bruise caused by a blow to the eye. 2. something that shines (with emitted or reflected light). 3. any of numerous small silvery North American cyprinid fishes especially of the genus Notropis. 
SHINNY: a simple version of hockey played by children on the streets (or on ice or on a field) using a ball or can as the puck
SHINTO: 1. relating to or characteristic of Shintoism. 2. the ancient indigenous religion of Japan lacking formal dogma; characterized by a veneration of nature spirits and of ancestors. 
SHIP: 1. a vessel that carries passengers or freight. 2. hire for work on a ship. 3. travel by ship. 4. place on board a ship. 
SHIRAZ: a city in central southwestern Iran; ruins of ancient Persepolis are nearby
SHIRE: 1. a former administrative district of England; equivalent to a county. 2. British breed of large heavy draft horse. 
SHIRK: avoid dealing with
SHIRR: bake (eggs) in their shells until they are set
SHIRT: put a shirt on
SHIRTY: (British informal) ill-tempered or annoyed
SHIT: a coarse term for defecation
SHIV: a knife used as a weapon
SHIVA: (Judaism) a period of seven days of mourning after the death of close relative
SHIVER: shake, as from cold
SHLEP: pull along heavily, like a heavy load against a resistance
SHOAL: 1. a sandbank in a stretch of water that is visible at low tide. 2. a stretch of shallow water. 
SHOCK: 1. strike with disgust or revulsion. 2. collide violently. 3. collect or gather into shocks. 4. subject to electrical shocks. 5. a pile of sheaves of grain set on end in a field to dry; stalks of Indian corn set up in a field. 6. a bushy thick mass (especially hair). 7. surprise greatly; knock someone's socks off. 8. strike with horror or terror. 
SHOD: wearing footgear
SHODDY: reclaimed wool fiber
SHOE: 1. furnish with shoes. 2. (card games) a case from which playing cards are dealt one at a time. 
SHOFAR: an ancient musical horn made from the horn of a ram; used in ancient times by the Israelites to sound a warning or a summons; used in synagogues today on solemn occasions
SHOGI: a form of chess played on a board of 81 squares; each player has 20 pieces
SHOGUN: a hereditary military dictator of Japan; the shoguns ruled Japan until the revolution of 1867-68
SHOJI: a translucent screen made of a wooden frame covered with rice paper
SHONA: 1. of or relating to or characteristic of the culture of the Shonas. 2. a Bantu language spoken in Zimbabwe. 
SHOOK: a disassembled barrel; the parts packed for storage or shipment
SHOOT: 1. hit with a missile from a weapon. 2. kill by firing a missile. 3. send forth suddenly, intensely, swiftly. 4. throw or propel in a specific direction or towards a specific objective. 5. emit (as light, flame, or fumes) suddenly and forcefully. 6. cause a sharp and sudden pain in. 7. variegate by interweaving weft threads of different colors. 8. throw dice, as in a crap game. 9. score. 10. utter fast and forcefully. 11. measure the altitude of by using a sextant. 12. produce buds, branches, or germinate. 
SHOP: 1. do one's shopping. 2. shop around; not necessarily buying. 
SHORE: 1. serve as a shore to. 2. a beam or timber that is propped against a structure to provide support. 
SHOREA: genus of Indonesian and Malaysian timber trees rich in resin
SHORT: 1. primarily temporal sense; indicating or being or seeming to be limited in duration. 2. without possessing something at the time it is contractually sold. 3. clean across. 4. at a disadvantage. 5. of speech sounds or syllables of relatively short duration. 6. lacking foresight or scope. 7. tending to crumble or break into flakes due to a large amount of shortening. 8. at some point or distance before a goal is reached. 9. so as to interrupt. 
SHOT: 1. a solid missile discharged from a firearm. 2. a chance to do something. 3. a person who shoots (usually with respect to their ability to shoot). 4. an aggressive remark directed at a person like a missile and intended to have a telling effect. 5. sports equipment consisting of a heavy metal ball used in the shot put. 6. an explosive charge used in blasting. 7. a blow hard enough to cause injury. 8. an attempt to score in a game. 9. informal words for any attempt or effort. 
SHOUT: 1. utter in a loud voice; talk in a loud voice (usually denoting characteristic manner of speaking). 2. utter a sudden loud cry. 
SHOVE: 1. the act of shoving (giving a push to someone or something). 2. push roughly. 
SHOVEL: 1. dig with or as if with a shovel. 2. the quantity a shovel can hold. 3. a fire iron consisting of a small shovel used to scoop coals or ashes in a fireplace. 
SHOW: 1. give an exhibition of to an interested audience. 2. a social event involving a public performance or entertainment. 3. make visible or noticeable. 4. be or become visible or noticeable. 5. give evidence of, as of records. 6. finish third or better in a horse or dog race. 
SHOWER: 1. a plumbing fixture that sprays water over you. 2. spray or sprinkle with. 3. take a shower; wash one's body in the shower. 4. rain abundantly. 5. a party of friends assembled to present gifts (usually of a specified kind) to a person. 6. provide abundantly with. 
SHOWY: displaying brilliance and virtuosity
SHRED: tear into shreds
SHREW: 1. a scolding nagging bad-tempered woman. 2. small mouselike mammal with a long snout; related to moles. 
SHRIEK: utter a shrill cry
SHRIFT: the act of being shriven
SHRIKE: any of numerous Old World birds having a strong hooked bill that feed on smaller animals
SHRILL: 1. having or emitting a high-pitched and sharp tone or tones. 2. of colors that are bright and gaudy. 
SHRIMP: 1. small slender-bodied chiefly marine decapod crustaceans with a long tail and single pair of pincers; many species are edible. 2. fish for shrimp. 
SHRINE: a place of worship hallowed by association with some sacred thing or person
SHRINK: 1. reduce in size; reduce physically. 2. become smaller or draw together. 3. decrease in size, range, or extent. 
SHRIVE: grant remission of a sin to
SHROUD: 1. cover as if with a shroud. 2. form a cover like a shroud. 3. wrap in a shroud. 
SHRUB: a low woody perennial plant usually having several major stems
SHRUG: raise one's shoulders to indicate indifference or resignation
SHTIK: 1. (Yiddish) a little; a piece. 2. (Yiddish) a contrived and often used bit of business that a performer uses to steal attention. 3. (Yiddish) a prank or piece of clowning. 4. (Yiddish) a devious trick; a bit of cheating. 
SHUCK: 1. remove from the shell. 2. remove the shucks from. 
SHUCKS: an expression of disappointment or irritation
SHUHA: of or pertaining to any Shinto sect other than Kokka Shinto
SHUN: avoid and stay away from deliberately; stay clear of
SHUNT: 1. transfer to another track, of trains. 2. provide with or divert by means of an electrical shunt. 3. implant consisting of a tube made of plastic or rubber; for draining fluids within the body. 
SHUSH: silence (someone) by uttering `shush!'
SHUT: not open
SHUTE: English writer who settled in Norway after World War II (1899-1960)
SIAL: the granitelike rocks that form the outermost layer of the earth's crust; rich in silicon and aluminum
SIALIA: North American bluebirds
SIALIS: type genus of the Sialidae
SIBYL: 1. a woman who tells fortunes. 2. (ancient Rome) a woman who was regarded as an oracle or prophet. 
SIC: intentionally so written (used after a printed word or phrase)
SICILY: 1. the Italian region on the island of Sicily. 2. the largest island in the Mediterranean. 
SICK: 1. people who are sick. 2. deeply affected by a strong feeling. 
SICKEN: 1. get sick. 2. upset and make nauseated. 3. make sick or ill. 
SICKLE: an edge tool for cutting grass or crops; has a curved blade and a short handle
SIDA: large genus of tropical subshrubs or herbs some of which yield fibers of mucilaginous substances
SIDE: 1. located on a side. 2. one of two or more contesting groups. 3. either the left or right half of a body. 4. a surface forming part of the outside of an object. 5. an extended outer surface of an object. 6. an aspect of something (as contrasted with some other implied aspect). 7. a line segment forming part of the perimeter of a plane figure. 8. a family line of descent. 9. a lengthwise dressed half of an animal's carcass used for food. 10. an opinion that is held in opposition to another in an argument or dispute. 
SIDING: 1. a short stretch of railroad track used to store rolling stock or enable trains on the same line to pass. 2. material applied to the outside of a building to make it weatherproof. 
SIDLE: 1. move unobtrusively or furtively. 2. move sideways. 
SIDNEY: English poet (1554-1586)
SYDNEY: the largest Australian city located in southeastern Australia on the Tasman Sea; state capital of New South Wales; Australia's chief port
SIEGE: the action of an armed force that surrounds a fortified place and isolates it while continuing to attack
SIENNA: an earth color containing ferric oxides; used as a pigment
SIERRA: 1. a range of mountains (usually with jagged peaks and irregular outline). 2. a Spanish mackerel of western North America. 
SIESTA: a nap in the early afternoon (especially in hot countries)
SIEVE: 1. a strainer for separating lumps from powdered material or grading particles. 2. check and sort carefully. 3. distinguish and separate out. 
SIF: (Norse mythology) wife of Thor and guardian of the home
SIFT: 1. move as if through a sieve. 2. separate by passing through a sieve or other straining device to separate out coarser elements. 
SIFTER: a household sieve (as for flour)
SIGH: 1. heave or utter a sigh; breathe deeply and heavily. 2. utter with a sigh. 
SIGHT: 1. an instance of visual perception. 2. take aim by looking through the sights of a gun (or other device). 3. the ability to see; the visual faculty. 4. a range of mental vision. 5. the range of vision. 
SIGHTS: an optical instrument for aiding the eye in aiming, as on a firearm or surveying instrument
SIGYN: (Norse mythology) wife of Loki; held a cup over him during his punishment to spare him the pain of drops of poison
SIGMA: the 18th letter of the Greek alphabet
SIGN: 1. mark with one's signature; write one's name (on). 2. approve and express assent, responsibility, or obligation. 3. place signs, as along a road. 4. a gesture that is part of a sign language. 5. a fundamental linguistic unit linking a signifier to that which is signified. 6. a character indicating a relation between quantities. 7. be engaged by a written agreement. 8. engage by written agreement. 9. communicate silently and non-verbally by signals or signs. 10. communicate in sign language. 
SIGNAL: 1. notably out of the ordinary. 2. any incitement to action. 3. an electric quantity (voltage or current or field strength) whose modulation represents coded information about the source from which it comes. 
SIGNED: having a handwritten signature
SIGNER: 1. someone who can use sign language to communicate. 2. someone who signs and is bound by a document. 
SIGNET: a seal (especially one used to mark documents officially)
SIGNOR: used as an Italian courtesy title; can be prefixed to the name or used separately
SIGURD: (Norse mythology) mythical Norse warrior hero who gains an accursed hoard of gold and was killed by Brynhild; Siegfried is the German counterpart
SIKH: of or relating to the Sikhs or their religious beliefs and customs
SIKKIM: a geographical area and former kingdom in northeastern India in the Himalaya Mountains between Nepal and Bhutan
SILAGE: fodder harvested while green and kept succulent by partial fermentation as in a silo
SILD: any of various young herrings (other than brislings) canned as sardines in Norway
SILENE: any plant of the genus Silene
SILENT: 1. marked by absence of sound. 2. implied by or inferred from actions or statements. 3. not made to sound. 4. having a frequency below or above the range of human audibility. 
SILEX: 1. a pure form of finely ground silica. 2. a vacuum coffee maker. 
SILICA: a white or colorless vitreous insoluble solid (SiO2); various forms occur widely in the earth's crust as quartz or cristobalite or tridymite or lechatelierite
SILK: 1. a fabric made from the fine threads produced by certain insect larvae. 2. animal fibers produced by silkworms and other larvae that spin cocoons and by most spiders. 
SILKS: the brightly colored garments of a jockey; emblematic of the stable
SILL: 1. structural member consisting of a continuous horizontal timber forming the lowest member of a framework or supporting structure. 2. (geology) a flat (usually horizontal) mass of igneous rock between two layers of older sedimentary rock. 
SILLY: a word used for misbehaving children
SILO: 1. a cylindrical tower used for storing silage. 2. military installation consisting of an underground structure where ballistic missiles can be stored and fired. 
SYLPH: 1. a slender graceful young woman. 2. an elemental being believed to inhabit the air. 
SILT: mud or clay or small rocks deposited by a river or lake
SILTY: full of silt
SILVA: the forest trees growing in a country or region
SYLVAN: relating to or characteristic of wooded regions
SILVER: 1. made from or largely consisting of silver. 2. having the white lustrous sheen of silver. 3. turn silver. 
SILVEX: a herbicide that is effective in controlling woody plants but is toxic to animals
SILVIA: type genus of the Sylviidae: warblers
SIMA: rock that form the continuous lower layer of the earth's crust; rich in silicon and magnesium
SYMBOL: 1. an arbitrary sign (written or printed) that has acquired a conventional significance. 2. something visible that by association or convention represents something else that is invisible. 
SIMEON: (Old Testament) the 2nd son of Jacob and one of the 12 patriarchs of Israel
SIMIAN: relating to or resembling an ape
SIMILE: a figure of speech that expresses a resemblance between things of different kinds (usually formed with `like' or `as')
SIMMER: boil slowly at low temperature
SIMNEL: 1. a crisp bread of fine white flour. 2. a fruitcake (sometimes covered with almond paste) eaten at mid-Lent or Easter or Christmas. 
SIMONY: traffic in ecclesiastical offices or preferments
SYMONS: English poet (1865-1945)
SIMOOM: a violent hot sand-laden wind on the deserts of Arabia and North Africa
SIMPER: a silly self-conscious smile
SIMPLE: 1. having few parts; not complex or complicated or involved. 2. (botany) of leaf shapes; of leaves having no divisions or subdivisions. 3. unornamented. 
SIMPLY: absolutely; altogether; really
SIN: 1. commit a sin; violate a law of God or a moral law. 2. an act that is regarded by theologians as a transgression of God's will. 3. (Akkadian) god of the Moon; counterpart of Sumerian Nanna. 4. the 21st letter of the Hebrew alphabet. 5. violent and excited activity. 
SINAI: 1. a mountain peak in the southern Sinai Peninsula (7,500 feet high); it is believed to be the peak on which Moses received the Ten Commandments. 2. a desert on the Sinai Peninsula in northeastern Egypt. 3. a peninsula in northeastern Egypt; at north end of Red Sea. 
SIND: a region of southeastern Pakistan
SINDHI: 1. a native or inhabitant of Sind. 2. the Indic language of Sind which is spoken also in western India. 
SYNDIC: one appointed to represent a city or university or corporation in business transactions
SINE: ratio of the length of the side opposite the given angle to the length of the hypotenuse of a right-angled triangle
SINFUL: having committed unrighteous acts
SING: 1. deliver by singing. 2. produce tones with the voice. 3. to make melodious sounds. 
SINGE: burn superficially or lightly
SYNGE: Irish poet and playwright whose plays are based on rural Irish life (1871-1909)
SINGER: 1. a person who sings. 2. United States inventor of an improved chain-stitch sewing machine (1811-1875). 3. United States writer (born in Poland) of Yiddish stories and novels (1904-1991). 
SINGLE: 1. hit a single. 2. used of flowers having usually only one row or whorl of petals. 3. existing alone or consisting of one entity or part or aspect or individual. 4. having uniform application. 5. not divided among or brought to bear on more than one object or objective. 
SINGLY: one by one; one at a time
SINK: 1. fall or descend to a lower place or level. 2. cause to sink. 3. pass into a specified state or condition. 4. go under, "The raft sank and its occupants drowned". 5. descend into or as if into some soft substance or place. 
SINKER: 1. a weight that sinks (as to hold nets or fishing lines under water). 2. a pitch that curves downward rapidly as it approaches the plate. 
SINNER: a person who sins (without repenting)
SYNOD: a council convened to discuss ecclesiastical business
SYNTAX: 1. the grammatical arrangement of words in sentences. 2. a systematic orderly arrangement. 3. studies of the rules for forming admissible sentences. 
SINTER: cause (ores or powdery metals) to become a coherent mass by heating without melting
SINUS: any of various air-filled cavities especially in the bones of the skull
SIOUAN: 1. a family of North American Indian languages spoken by the Sioux. 2. of or relating to the Sioux people or their language and culture. 
SIOUX: a member of a group of North American Indian peoples who spoke a Siouan language and who ranged from Lake Michigan to the Rocky Mountains
SIP: drink in sips
SIPHON: 1. convey, draw off, or empty by or as if by a siphon. 2. move a liquid from one container into another by means of a siphon or a siphoning action. 
SIPPER: a drinker who sips
SIR: 1. term of address for a man. 2. a title used before the name of knight or baronet. 
SIRDAR: an important person in India
SIRE: 1. a title of address formerly used for a man of rank and authority. 2. male parent of an animal especially a domestic animal such as a horse. 
SIREN: 1. a sea nymph (part woman and part bird) supposed to lure sailors to destruction on the rocks where the nymphs lived. 2. a warning signal that is a loud wailing sound. 3. an acoustic device producing a loud often wailing sound as a signal or warning. 4. eellike aquatic North American salamander with small forelimbs and no hind limbs; have permanent external gills. 
SYRIA: an Asian republic in the Middle East at the east end of the Mediterranean; site of some of the world's most ancient centers of civilization
SYRIAN: of or relating to or characteristic of Syria or its people or culture
SYRINX: the vocal organ of a bird
SIRIS: large spreading Old World tree having large leaves and globose clusters of greenish-yellow flowers and long seed pods that clatter in the wind
SIRIUS: the brightest star in the sky; in Canis Major
SIRRAH: formerly a contemptuous term of address to an inferior man or boy; often used in anger
SYRUP: a thick sweet sticky liquid
SYRUPY: having a relatively high resistance to flow
SISAL: 1. a plant fiber used for making rope. 2. Mexican or West Indian plant with large fleshy leaves yielding a stiff fiber used in e.g. rope. 
SISKIN: small yellow-and-black Eurasian finch with a sharp beak
SISSY: a timid man or boy considered childish or unassertive
SISSOO: East Indian tree whose leaves are used for fodder; yields a compact dark brown durable timber used in shipbuilding and making railroad ties
SYSTEM: 1. instrumentality that combines interrelated interacting artifacts designed to work as a coherent entity. 2. a group of independent but interrelated elements comprising a unified whole. 3. (physical chemistry) a sample of matter in which substances in different phases are in equilibrium. 4. a complex of methods or rules governing behavior. 5. a group of physiologically or anatomically related organs or parts. 6. a procedure or process for obtaining an objective. 7. the living body considered as made up of interdependent components forming a unified whole. 
SISTER: 1. a female person who has the same parents as another person. 2. (Roman Catholic Church) a title given to a nun (and used as a form of address). 3. a female person who is a fellow member of a sorority or labor union or other group. 
SIT: 1. be seated. 2. be around, often idly or without specific purpose. 3. be in session. 4. be located or situated somewhere. 5. serve in a specific professional capacity. 
SITA: wife of the Hindu god Rama; regarded as an ideal of womanhood
SITAR: a stringed instrument of India; has a long neck and movable frets; has 6 or 7 metal strings for playing and usually 13 resonating strings
SITE: 1. the piece of land on which something is located (or is to be located). 2. physical position in relation to the surroundings. 
SIT-IN: a form of civil disobedience in which demonstrators occupy seats and refuse to move
SITKA: a town in southeastern Alaska that was the capital of Russian America and served as the capital of Alaska from 1867 until 1906
SITTA: type genus of the Sittidae
SITTER: 1. Dutch astronomer who calculated the size of the universe and suggested that it is expanding (1872-1934). 2. an organism (person or animal) that sits. 
SIT-UP: a stomach exercise in which a person sits up from a supine position without using the arms for leverage
SIUM: perennial of wet and marshy places in the northern hemisphere: water parsnips
SIVA: the destroyer; one of the three major divinities in the later Hindu pantheon
SIVAN: the ninth month of the civil year; the third month of the ecclesiastical year in the Jewish calendar (in May and June)
SIX: denoting a quantity consisting of six items or units
SIXTH: 1. coming next after the fifth and just before the seventh in position. 2. the musical interval between one note and another six notes away from it. 
SIXTY: being ten more than fifty
SIZE: 1. (used in combination) sized. 2. sort according to size. 3. make to a size; bring to a suitable size. 4. the actual state of affairs. 5. a large magnitude. 
SIZED: 1. having a specified size. 2. having the surface treated or coated with sizing. 
SYZYGY: the straight line configuration of 3 celestial bodies (as the sun and earth and moon) in a gravitational system
SIZZLE: 1. make a sound like frying fat. 2. seethe with deep anger or resentment. 3. burn or sear with a sizzling sound. 
SKANDA: Hindu god of war
SKATE: 1. move along on skates. 2. large edible rays having a long snout and thick tail with pectoral fins continuous with the head; swim by undulating the edges of the pectoral fins. 
SKATER: someone who skates
SKEAT: English philologist (1835-1912)
SKEET: the sport of shooting at clay pigeons that are hurled upward in such a way as to simulate the flight of a bird
SKEG: a brace that extends from the rear of the keel to support the rudderpost
SKEIN: coils of worsted yarn
SKEP: 1. a large round wicker basket (used on farms). 2. a domed beehive made of twisted straw. 
SKETCH: 1. make a sketch of. 2. describe roughly or briefly or give the main points or summary of. 3. short descriptive summary (of events). 
SKEW: having an oblique or slanting direction or position
SKEWER: drive a skewer through
SKI: move along on skis
SKY: the atmosphere and outer space as viewed from the earth
SKIBOB: a vehicle resembling a bicycle but having skis instead of wheels; the rider wears short skis for balancing
SKYCAP: a porter who helps passengers with their baggage at an airport
SKID: 1. slide without control. 2. apply a brake or skid to. 3. elevate onto skids. 4. move obliquely or sideways, usually in an uncontrolled manner. 
SKIER: someone who skis
SKIFF: any of various small boats propelled by oars or by sails or by a motor
SKIING: a sport in which participants must travel on skis
SKILL: 1. an ability that has been acquired by training. 2. ability to produce solutions in some problem domain. 
SKILLY: a thin porridge or soup (usually oatmeal and water flavored with meat)
SKIM: 1. used of milk and milk products from which the cream has been removed. 2. reading or glancing through quickly. 3. cause to skip over a surface. 4. coat (a liquid) with a layer. 5. remove from the surface. 6. read superficially. 
SKIMP: work hastily or carelessly; deal with inadequately and superficially
SKIN: 1. a natural protective body covering and site of the sense of touch. 2. bruise, cut, or injure the skin or the surface of. 3. strip the skin off. 4. a bag serving as a container for liquids; it is made from the hide of an animal. 
SKINK: alert agile lizard with reduced limbs and an elongated body covered with shiny scales; more dependent on moisture than most lizards; found in tropical regions worldwide
SKINNY: 1. confidential information about a topic or person. 2. of or relating to or resembling skin. 
SKIP: 1. a gait in which steps and hops alternate. 2. bound off one point after another. 
SKIRL: 1. make a shrill, wailing sound. 2. play the bagpipes. 
SKIRT: 1. cloth covering that forms the part of a garment below the waist. 2. pass around or about; move along the border. 3. form the edge of. 
SKIT: a short theatrical episode
SKIVE: remove the surface of
SKIVVY: a female domestic servant who does all kinds of menial work
SKOPJE: capital of modern Macedonia
SKUA: gull-like jaeger of northern seas
SKULK: move stealthily
SKULL: the bony skeleton of the head of vertebrates
SKUNK: American musteline mammal typically ejecting an intensely malodorous fluid when startled; in some classifications put in a separate subfamily Mephitinae
SLAB: block consisting of a thick piece of something
SLACK: 1. avoid responsibilities and work, be idle. 2. release tension on. 3. the quality of being loose (not taut). 4. a cord or rope or cable that is hanging loosely. 5. flowing with little speed as e.g. at the turning of the tide. 6. make less active or fast. 7. cause to heat and crumble by treatment with water. 
SLACKS: (usually in the plural) pants for casual wear
SLAG: convert into slag
SLAIN: killed; `slain' is formal or literary as in "slain warriors"
SLAKE: make less active or intense
SLALOM: race on skis around obstacles
SLAM: 1. close violently. 2. strike violently. 3. a forceful impact that makes a loud noise. 4. throw violently. 
SLANG: 1. use slang or vulgar language. 2. a characteristic language of a particular group (as among thieves). 3. abuse with coarse language. 
SLANGY: constituting or expressed in slang or given to the use of slang
SLANT: 1. lie obliquely. 2. present with a bias. 
SLAP: hit with something flat, like a paddle or the open hand
SLASH: 1. an open tract of land in a forest that is strewn with debris from logging (or fire or wind). 2. cut drastically. 3. cut with sweeping strokes; as with an ax or machete. 4. cut open. 
SLAT: 1. equip or bar with slats. 2. close the slats of (windows). 
SLATE: 1. designate or schedule. 2. enter on a list or slate for an election. 3. cover with slate. 4. a list of candidates nominated by a political party to run for election to public offices. 
SLAV: speaking a Slavic language
SLAVE: 1. work very hard, like a slave. 2. someone who works as hard as a slave. 3. someone entirely dominated by some influence or person. 
SLAVER: a person engaged in slave trade
SLAVIC: a branch of the Indo-European family of languages
SLEAZY: of cloth; thin and loosely woven
SLED: ride (on) a sled
SLEDGE: 1. transport in a sleigh. 2. ride in or travel with a sledge. 
SLEEK: well-groomed and neatly tailored; especially too well-groomed
SLEEP: 1. be asleep. 2. be able to accommodate for sleeping. 3. a period of time spent sleeping. 
SLEEPY: ready to fall asleep
SLEET: precipitate as a mixture of rain and snow
SLEETY: consisting of or of the nature of frozen or partially frozen rain
SLEEVE: 1. the part of a garment that is attached at the armhole and that provides a cloth covering for the arm. 2. small case into which an object fits. 
SLEUTH: a detective who follows a trail
SLICE: 1. a share of something. 2. hit a ball so that it causes a backspin. 3. a thin flat piece cut off of some object. 4. a spatula for spreading paint or ink. 5. hit a ball and put a spin on it so that it travels in a different direction. 6. cut into slices. 
SLICED: used of meat; cut into pieces for serving
SLICER: 1. a golfer whose shots typically curve right (for right-handed golfers). 2. a machine for cutting; usually with a revolving blade. 3. knife especially designed for slicing particular foods, as cheese. 
SLICK: 1. give a smooth and glossy appearance. 2. a film of oil or garbage floating on top of water. 3. a trowel used to make a surface slick. 4. made slick by e.g. ice or grease. 
SLIDE: 1. a small flat rectangular piece of glass on which specimens can be mounted for microscopic study. 2. (geology) the descent of a large mass of earth or rocks or snow etc.. 3. plaything consisting of a sloping chute down which children can slide. 4. the act of moving smoothly along a surface while remaining in contact with it. 5. a transparency mounted in a frame; viewed with a slide projector. 6. move smoothly along a surface. 
SLIDER: 1. freshwater turtle of United States and South America; frequently raised commercially; some young sold as pets. 2. a fastball that curves slightly away from the side from which it was thrown. 
SLIGHT: pay no attention to, disrespect
SLIME: cover or stain with slime
SLIMED: covered with or resembling slime
SLING: 1. hurl as if with a sling. 2. hold or carry in a sling. 3. bandage to support an injured forearm; consisting of a wide triangular piece of cloth hanging from around the neck. 4. hang loosely or freely; let swing. 5. move with a sling. 
SLINK: walk stealthily
SLIP: 1. insert inconspicuously or quickly or quietly. 2. potter's clay that is thinned and used for coating or decorating ceramics. 3. move smoothly and easily. 4. pass on stealthily. 5. pass out of one's memory. 6. a flight maneuver; aircraft slides sideways in the air. 7. the act of avoiding capture (especially by cunning). 8. get worse. 9. move easily. 10. cause to move with a smooth or sliding motion. 
SLIT: 1. make a clean cut through. 2. a narrow fissure. 3. cut a slit into. 
SLIVER: 1. divide into slivers or splinters. 2. form into slivers. 
SLOB: a coarse obnoxious person
SLOE: small sour dark purple fruit of especially the Allegheny plum bush
SLOG: walk heavily and firmly, as when weary, or through mud
SLOOP: a sailing vessel with a single mast set about one third of the boat's length aft of the bow
SLOP: 1. wet feed (especially for pigs) consisting of mostly kitchen waste mixed with water or skimmed or sour milk. 2. deep soft mud in water or slush. 3. ladle clumsily. 4. feed pigs. 
SLOPE: be at an angle
SLOPPY: 1. lacking neatness or order. 2. wet or smeared with a spilled liquid or moist material. 
SLOPS: cheap clothing (as formerly issued to sailors in Britain)
SLOSH: spill or splash copiously or clumsily
SLOT: 1. assign a time slot. 2. a small slit (as for inserting a coin or depositing mail). 3. a position in a hierarchy or organization. 4. the trail of an animal (especially a deer). 5. (computer) a socket in a microcomputer that will accept a plug-in circuit board. 6. a slot machine that is used for gambling. 
SLOTH: 1. a disinclination to work or exert yourself. 2. any of several slow-moving arboreal mammals of South America and Central America; they hang from branches back downward and feed on leaves and fruits. 3. apathy and inactivity in the practice of virtue (personified as one of the deadly sins). 
SLOUCH: 1. an incompetent person; usually used in negative constructions. 2. walk slovenly. 
SLOUGH: 1. a hollow filled with mud. 2. a stagnant swamp (especially as part of a bayou). 3. any outer covering that can be shed or cast off (such as the cast-off skin of a snake). 
SLOVAK: 1. a native or inhabitant of Slovakia. 2. the Slavic language spoken in Slovakia. 
SLOW: 1. at a slow tempo. 2. cause to proceed more slowly. 3. not moving quickly; taking a comparatively long time. 4. (used of timepieces) indicating a time earlier than the correct time. 
SLOWER: more slowly
SLOWLY: without speed (`slow' is sometimes used informally for `slowly')
SLUB: soft lump or unevenness in a yarn; either an imperfection or created by design
SLUDGE: 1. the precipitate produced by sewage treatment. 2. any thick, viscous matter. 
SLUG: 1. a unit of mass equal to the mass that accelerates at 1 foot/sec/sec when acted upon by a force of 1 pound; approximately 14.5939 kilograms. 2. a counterfeit coin. 3. an amount of an alcoholic drink (usually liquor) that is poured or gulped. 4. any of various terrestrial gastropods having an elongated slimy body and no external shell. 5. strike heavily, especially with the fist or a bat. 
SLUICE: 1. pour as if from a sluice. 2. irrigate with water from a sluice. 3. transport in or send down a sluice. 4. draw through a sluice. 
SLUM: spend time at a lower socio-economic level than one's own, motivated by curiosity or desire for adventure; usage considered condescending and insensitive
SLUMMY: (of housing or residential areas) indicative of poverty
SLUMP: 1. assume a drooping posture or carriage. 2. fall or sink heavily. 3. fall heavily or suddenly; decline markedly. 
SLUR: 1. play smoothly or legato. 2. speak disparagingly of; e.g., make a racial slur. 3. utter indistinctly. 
SLURP: eat noisily
SLURRY: a suspension of insoluble particles (as plaster of Paris or lime or clay etc.) usually in water
SLUSH: partially melted snow
SLUSHY: being or resembling melting snow
SMACK: 1. have a distinctive or characteristic taste. 2. press (the lips) together and open (the lips) noisily, as in eating. 3. the act of smacking something; a blow delivered with an open hand. 4. deliver a hard blow to. 5. have an element suggestive (of something). 6. kiss lightly. 
SMALL: 1. on a small scale. 2. a garment size for a small person. 3. slight or limited; especially in degree or intensity or scope. 4. have fine or very small constituent particles. 
SMART: 1. showing mental alertness and calculation and resourcefulness. 2. painfully severe. 3. quick and brisk. 4. capable of independent and apparently intelligent action. 
SMASH: 1. break into pieces, as by striking or knocking over. 2. with a loud crash. 3. hit violently. 4. hit (a tennis ball) in a powerful overhead stroke. 5. collide or strike violently and suddenly. 6. overthrow or destroy (something considered evil or harmful). 7. break suddenly into pieces, as from a violent blow. 
SMEAR: 1. stain by smearing or daubing with a dirty substance. 2. make a smudge on; soil by smudging. 
SMEGMA: a white secretion of the sebaceous glands of the foreskin
SMELL: 1. inhale the odor of; perceive by the olfactory sense. 2. the faculty that enables us to distinguish scents. 3. become aware of not through the senses but instinctively. 4. emit an odor. 5. smell bad. 
SMELT: 1. extract (metals) by heating. 2. small trout-like silvery marine or freshwater food fishes of cold northern waters. 
SMEW: smallest merganser and most expert diver; found in northern Eurasia
SMILAX: 1. sometimes placed in Smilacaceae. 2. fragile twining plant of South Africa with bright green flattened stems and glossy foliage popular as a floral decoration. 
SMILE: 1. change one's facial expression by spreading the lips, often to signal pleasure. 2. express with a smile. 
SMILEY: an emoticon of a smiling face
SMILER: a person who smiles
SMIRCH: smear so as to make dirty or stained
SMIRK: smile affectedly or derisively
SMITE: 1. inflict a heavy blow on, with the hand, a tool, or a weapon. 2. affect suddenly with deep feeling. 
SMITH: 1. Rhodesian statesman who declared independence of Zimbabwe from Great Britain (born in 1919). 2. United States sculptor (1906-1965). 3. United States singer noted for her rendition of patriotic songs (1909-1986). 4. United States suffragist who refused to pay taxes until she could vote (1792-1886). 5. United States blues singer (1894-1937). 6. religious leader who founded the Mormon Church in 1830 (1805-1844). 7. English explorer who helped found the colony at Jamestown, Virginia; was said to have been saved by Pocahontas (1580-1631). 8. Scottish economist who advocated private enterprise and free trade (1723-1790). 9. someone who works at something specified. 10. someone who works metal (especially by hammering it when it is hot and malleable). 
SMOCK: embellish by sewing in straight lines crossing each other diagonally
SMOG: air pollution by a mixture of smoke and fog
SMOGGY: clouded with a mixture of smoke and fog
SMOKE: 1. inhale and exhale smoke from cigarettes, cigars, pipes. 2. a hot vapor containing fine particles of carbon being produced by combustion. 3. an indication of some hidden activity. 4. something with no concrete substance. 5. the act of smoking tobacco or other substances. 
SMOKED: (used especially of meats and fish) dried and cured by hanging in wood smoke
SMOKER: 1. a person who smokes tobacco. 2. a passenger car for passengers who wish to smoke. 
SMOKY: 1. marked by or emitting or filled with smoke. 2. tasting of smoke. 
SMOOCH: snuggle and lie in a position where one person faces the back of the others
SMOOTH: 1. having a surface free from roughness or bumps or ridges or irregularities. 2. of the margin of a leaf shape; not broken up into teeth. 3. of motion that runs or flows or proceeds without jolts or turbulence. 4. lacking obstructions or difficulties. 
SMUDGE: 1. a smoky fire to drive away insects. 2. a blemish made by dirt. 
SMUDGY: smeared with something that soils or stains; these words are often used in combination
SMUG: marked by excessive complacency or self-satisfaction
SMUGLY: in a smug manner
SMUT: 1. stain with a dirty substance, such as soot. 2. become affected with smut. 3. make obscene. 4. affect with smut or mildew, as of a crop such as corn. 
SMUTS: South African statesman and soldier (1870-1950)
SNAFU: cause to be in a state of complete confusion
SNAG: 1. catch on a snag. 2. get by acting quickly and smartly. 3. hew jaggedly. 
SNAIL: gather snails
SNAKE: 1. move smoothly and sinuously, like a snake. 2. form a snake-like pattern. 3. move along a winding path. 4. something long, thin, and flexible that resembles a snake. 
SNAP: 1. a spell of cold weather. 2. close with a snapping motion. 3. move with a snapping sound. 4. cause to make a snapping sound. 5. bring the jaws together. 6. utter in an angry, sharp, or abrupt tone. 7. break suddenly and abruptly, as under tension. 8. move or strike with a noise. 9. make a sharp sound. 10. put in play with a snap. 
SNAPPY: smart and fashionable
SNARE: 1. a surgical instrument consisting of wire hoop that can be drawn tight around the base of polyps or small tumors to sever them; used especially in body cavities. 2. strings stretched across the lower head of a snare drum; they make a rattling sound when the drum is hit. 3. a trap for birds or small mammals; often has a slip noose. 
SNARER: someone who sets snares for birds or small animals
SNARL: 1. a vicious angry growl. 2. make a snarling noise or move with a snarling noise. 3. make more complicated or confused through entanglements. 
SNATCH: 1. to grasp hastily or eagerly. 2. a weightlift in which the barbell is lifted overhead in one rapid motion. 3. to make grasping motions. 
SNAZZY: flashily stylish
SNEAK: 1. to go stealthily or furtively. 2. put, bring, or take in a secretive or furtive manner. 
SNEAKY: marked by deception
SNEER: 1. express through a scornful smile. 2. smile contemptuously. 
SNEEZE: exhale spasmodically, as when an irritant entered one's nose
SNEEZY: inclined to sneeze
SNICK: 1. a glancing contact with the ball off the edge of the cricket bat. 2. hit a glancing blow with the edge of the bat. 
SNIFF: 1. perceive by inhaling through the nose. 2. inhale audibly through the nose. 
SNIP: 1. a small piece of anything (especially a piece that has been snipped off). 2. cultivate, tend, and cut back the growth of. 
SNIPE: 1. hunt or shoot snipe. 2. a gunshot from a concealed location. 
SNIPER: a marksman who shoots at people from a concealed place
SNIPS: (plural) hand shears for cutting sheet metal
SNIT: a state of agitated irritation
SNIVEL: 1. talk in a tearful manner. 2. cry or whine with snuffling. 
SNOB: a person regarded as arrogant and annoying
SNOG: touch with the lips or press the lips (against someone's mouth or other body part) as an expression of love, greeting, etc.
SNOOD: an ornamental net in the shape of a bag that confines a woman's hair; pins or ties at the back of the head
SNOOK: large tropical American food and game fishes of coastal and brackish waters; resemble pike
SNOOP: a spy who makes uninvited inquiries into the private affairs of others
SNOOPY: a fictional beagle in a comic strip drawn by Charles Schulz
SNOOZE: sleep lightly or for a short period of time
SNORE: 1. breathe noisily during one's sleep. 2. the act of snoring or producing a snoring sound. 
SNORER: someone who snores while sleeping
SNORT: 1. indicate contempt by breathing noisily and forcefully through the nose. 2. make a snorting sound by exhaling hard. 
SNOT: nasal mucus
SNOTTY: dirty with nasal discharge
SNOUT: 1. a long projecting or anterior elongation of an animal's head; especially the nose. 2. beaklike projection of the anterior part of the head of certain insects such as e.g. weevils. 
SNOW: 1. fall as snow. 2. a layer of snowflakes (white crystals of frozen water) covering the ground. 3. English writer of novels about moral dilemmas in academe (1905-1980). 
SNUB: 1. a refusal to recognize someone you know. 2. unusually short. 
SNUFF: 1. snuff colored; of a greyish to yellowish brown. 2. inhale audibly through the nose. 3. finely powdered tobacco for sniffing up the nose. 
SNUG: 1. offering safety; well protected or concealed. 2. well and tightly constructed. 
SNUGLY: 1. fitting closely. 2. safely protected. 3. warmly and comfortably sheltered. 
SOAK: 1. submerge in a liquid. 2. washing something by allowing it to soak. 3. beat severely. 4. fill, soak, or imbue totally. 5. heat a metal prior to working it. 
SOAP: 1. rub soap all over, usually with the purpose of cleaning. 2. money offered as a bribe. 3. street names for gamma hydroxybutyrate. 
SOAR: 1. rise rapidly. 2. fly upwards or high in the sky. 3. go or move upward. 
SOAVE: dry white Italian wine from Verona
SOB: 1. convulsive gasp made while weeping. 2. weep convulsively. 
SOBER: not affected by a chemical substance (especially alcohol)
SOCAGE: land tenure by agricultural service or payment of rent; not burdened with military service
SOCCER: a football game in which two teams of 11 players try to kick or head a ball into the opponents' goal
SOCIAL: 1. relating to human society and its members. 2. living together or enjoying life in communities or organized groups. 3. relating to or belonging to or characteristic of high society. 4. composed of sociable people or formed for the purpose of sociability. 5. tending to move or live together in groups or colonies of the same kind. 6. marked by friendly companionship with others. 
SOCK: hit hard
SOCKET: 1. a bony hollow into which a structure fits. 2. receptacle where something (a pipe or probe or end of a bone) is inserted. 3. a receptacle into which an electric device can be inserted. 
SOCLE: a plain plinth that supports a wall
SOD: 1. an informal British term for a youth or man. 2. cover with sod. 
SODDEN: wet through and through; thoroughly wet
SODDY: English chemist whose work on radioactive disintegration led to the discovery of isotopes (1877-1956)
SODIUM: a silvery soft waxy metallic element of the alkali metal group; occurs abundantly in natural compounds (especially in salt water); burns with a yellow flame and reacts violently in water; occurs in sea water and in the mineral halite (rock salt)
SODOKU: the form of ratbite fever occurring in the Far East
SODOM: 1. any location known for vice and corruption. 2. (Old Testament) an ancient city near the Dead Sea that (along with Gomorrah) was destroyed by God for the wickedness of its inhabitants. 
SODOMY: intercourse via the anus, committed by a man with a man or woman
SOFA: an upholstered seat for more than one person
SOFFIT: the underside of a part of a building (such as an arch or overhang or beam etc.)
SOFIA: capital and largest city of Bulgaria located in western Bulgaria
SOFT: 1. yielding readily to pressure or weight. 2. compassionate and kind; conciliatory. 3. (of sound) relatively low in volume. 4. not protected against attack (especially by nuclear weapons). 5. (of light) transmitted from a broad light source or reflected. 6. (of speech sounds); produced with the back of the tongue raised toward the hard palate; characterized by a hissing or hushing sound (as `s' and `sh'). 7. (of a commodity or market or currency) falling or likely to fall in value. 8. using evidence not readily amenable to experimental verification or refutation. 9. out of condition; not strong or robust; incapable of exertion or endurance. 10. willing to negotiate and compromise. 11. not brilliant or glaring. 
SOFTEN: 1. make (images or sounds) soft or softer. 2. make soft or softer. 3. become soft or softer. 
SOFTY: a person who is weak and excessively sentimental
SOFTLY: 1. with low volume. 2. in a manner that is pleasing to the senses. 
SOHO: 1. a district in southwestern Manhattan noted for its shops and restaurants and galleries and artist's lofts. 2. a city district of central London now noted for restaurants and nightclubs. 
SOY: 1. a source of oil; used for forage and soil improvement and as food. 2. erect bushy hairy annual herb having trifoliate leaves and purple to pink flowers; extensively cultivated for food and forage and soil improvement but especially for its nutritious oil-rich seeds; native to Asia. 3. the most highly proteinaceous vegetable known; the fruit of the soybean plant is used in a variety of foods and as fodder (especially as a replacement for animal protein). 
SOIGNE: polished and well-groomed; showing sophisticated elegance
SOIL: the part of the earth's surface consisting of humus and disintegrated rock
SOIREE: a party of people assembled in the evening (usually at a private house)
SOL: 1. a colloid that has a continuous liquid phase in which a solid is suspended in a liquid. 2. (Roman mythology) ancient Roman god; personification of the sun; counterpart of Greek Helios. 3. the syllable naming the fifth (dominant) note of any musical scale in solmization. 
SOLACE: comfort in disappointment or misery
SOLAN: very large white gannet with black wing tips
SOLAR: relating to or derived from the sun or utilizing the energies of the sun
SOLD: disposed of to a purchaser
SOLDER: join or fuse with solder
SOLE: 1. put a new sole on. 2. lean flesh of any of several flatfish. 3. the underside of the foot. 4. right-eyed flatfish; many are valued as food; most common in warm seas especially European. 
SOLEA: type genus of the Soleidae
SOLED: having a sole or soles especially as specified; used in combination
SOLENT: a strait of the English Channel between the coast of Hampshire and the Isle of Wight
SOLEUS: a broad flat muscle in the calf of the leg under the gastrocnemius muscle
SOLID: 1. characterized by good substantial quality. 2. of definite shape and volume; firm; neither liquid nor gaseous. 3. entirely of one substance with no holes inside. 4. of one substance or character throughout. 5. uninterrupted in space; having no gaps or breaks. 6. of good quality and condition; solidly built. 7. having three dimensions. 8. impenetrable for the eye. 9. financially sound. 10. of a substantial character and not frivolous or superficial. 11. of the same color throughout. 12. acting together as a single undiversified whole. 
SOLO: 1. composed or performed by a single voice or instrument. 2. perform a piece written for a single instrument. 3. a flight in which the aircraft pilot is unaccompanied. 
SOLUTE: the dissolved matter in a solution; the component of a solution that changes its state
SOLVAY: Belgian chemist who developed the Solvay process and built factories exploiting it (1838-1922)
SOLVE: find the solution to (a problem or question) or understand the meaning of
SOLVED: explained or answered; problems resolved and unresolved"
SOM: 1. the basic unit of money in Uzbekistan. 2. the basic unit of money in Kyrgyzstan. 
SOMA: 1. leafless East Indian vine; its sour milky juice formerly used to make an intoxicating drink. 2. personification of a sacred intoxicating drink used in Vedic ritual. 
SOMALI: the Cushitic language spoken by the Somali
SOMBER: grave or even gloomy in character
SOME: 1. quantifier; used with either mass nouns or plural count nouns to indicate an unspecified number or quantity. 2. relatively much but unspecified in amount or extent. 3. relatively many but unspecified in number. 4. remarkable. 
SOMME: 1. battle of World War II (1944). 2. battle in World War I (1916). 
SON: 1. a male human offspring. 2. the divine word of God; the second person in the Trinity (incarnate in Jesus). 
SONANT: a speech sound accompanied by sound from the vocal cords
SONAR: a measuring instrument that sends out an acoustic pulse in water and measures distances in terms of the time for the echo of the pulse to return
SONATA: a musical composition of 3 or 4 movements of contrasting forms
SONE: a unit of perceived loudness equal to the loudness of a 1000-hertz tone at 40 dB above threshold
SONG: 1. a short musical composition with words. 2. a distinctive or characteristic sound. 3. the act of singing. 4. a very small sum. 
SONIC: 1. (of speed) having or caused by speed approximately equal to that of sound in air at sea level. 2. relating to audible sound. 
SONNET: 1. praise in a sonnet. 2. compose a sonnet. 
SONORA: ground snakes
SOON: in the near future
SOONER: comparatives of `soon' or `early'
SOOT: coat with soot
SOOTH: truth or reality
SOOTHE: cause to feel better
SOOTY: covered with or as if with soot
SOP: 1. give a conciliatory gift or bribe to. 2. be or become thoroughly soaked or saturated with a liquid. 3. dip into liquid. 
SORB: take up a liquid or a gas either by adsorption or by absorption
SORBUS: a genus of shrubs or trees of the family Rosaceae having feathery leaves
SORDID: meanly avaricious and mercenary
SORE: an open skin infection
SORELY: to a great degree
SOREX: type genus of the family Soricidae: shrews
SORGO: any of several sorghums cultivated as a source of syrup
SORREL: 1. large sour-tasting arrowhead-shaped leaves used in salads and sauces. 2. a horse of a brownish orange to light brown color. 3. of a light brownish color. 
SORROW: 1. an emotion of great sadness associated with loss or bereavement. 2. sadness associated with some wrong done or some disappointment. 
SORT: 1. an approximate definition or example. 2. a person of a particular character or nature. 3. an operation that segregates items into groups according to a specified criterion. 
SORTED: arranged according to size
SORTER: 1. a clerk who sorts things (as letters at the post office). 2. a machine for sorting things (such as punched cards or letters) into classes. 
SORTIE: 1. a military action in which besieged troops burst forth from their position. 2. (military) an operational flight by a single aircraft (as in a military operation). 
SORUS: 1. a spore-producing structure in certain lichens and fungi. 2. cluster of sporangia usually on underside of a fern frond. 
SOS: an internationally recognized distress signal in radio code
SOTHO: 1. of or relating to any of the group of Sotho languages. 2. any of the mutually intelligible southern Bantu languages of the Sotho in Botswana and South Africa and Lesotho. 
SOU: a former French coin of low denomination; often used of any small amount of money
SOUARI: large South American evergreen tree trifoliate leaves and drupes with nutlike seeds used as food and a source of cooking oil
SOUGH: make a murmuring sound
SOUGHT: 1. that is looked for. 2. being searched for. 
SOUK: an open-air market in an Arabian city
SOUL: 1. the immaterial part of a person; the actuating cause of an individual life. 2. deep feeling or emotion. 3. the human embodiment of something. 4. a secular form of gospel that was a major Black musical genre in the 1960s and 1970s. 
SOUND: 1. financially secure and safe. 2. make a certain noise or sound. 3. in good condition; free from defect or damage or decay. 4. announce by means of a sound. 5. a large ocean inlet or deep bay. 6. cause to sound. 7. free from moral defect. 8. thorough. 
SOUP: 1. dope (a racehorse). 2. any composition having a consistency suggestive of soup. 3. an unfortunate situation. 
SOUPY: having the consistency and appearance of soup
SOUR: 1. smelling of fermentation or staleness. 2. having a sharp biting taste. 3. one of the four basic taste sensations; like the taste of vinegar or lemons. 
SOURCE: 1. specify the origin of. 2. anything that provides inspiration for later work. 3. a facility where something is available. 4. (technology) a process by which energy or a substance enters a system. 5. get (a product) from another country or business. 
SOURED: having turned bad
SOURLY: in a sour manner
SOUSE: 1. pork trimmings chopped and pickled and jelled. 2. become drunk or drink excessively. 3. cook in a marinade. 
SOUTH: 1. in a southern direction. 2. the cardinal compass point that is at 180 degrees. 3. a location in the southern part of a country, region, or city. 4. the direction corresponding to the southward cardinal compass point. 
SOVIET: of or relating to or characteristic of the former Soviet Union or its people
SOW: 1. place (seeds) in or on the ground for future growth. 2. introduce into an environment. 
SOWER: someone who sows
SOWETO: a large collection of African townships to the southwest of Johannesburg in South Africa; inhabited solely by Black Africans
SPACE: 1. place at intervals. 2. an empty area (usually bounded in some way between things). 3. an area reserved for some particular purpose. 4. a blank character used to separate successive words in writing or printing. 5. a blank area. 6. one of the areas between or below or above the lines of a musical staff. 
SPACED: arranged with spaces between; often used as a combining form
SPADE: 1. dig (up) with a spade. 2. a sturdy hand shovel that can be pushed into the earth with the foot. 
SPADIX: the fleshy axis of a spike often surrounded by a spathe
SPAYED: (of a female animal) having the ovaries removed
SPAIN: a parliamentary monarchy in southwestern Europe on the Iberian Peninsula; a former colonial power
SPALAX: type genus of the Spalacidae
SPALL: a fragment broken off from the edge or face of stone or ore and having at least one thin edge
SPAM: 1. send unwanted or junk e-mail. 2. unwanted e-mail (usually of a commercial nature sent out in bulk). 
SPAN: 1. the complete duration of something. 2. the distance or interval between two points. 3. a unit of length based on the width of the expanded human hand (usually taken as 9 inches). 
SPANG: leap, jerk, bang
SPANK: give a spanking to; subject to a spanking
SPAR: 1. furnish with spars. 2. fight with spurs. 3. box lightly. 4. fight verbally. 
SPARE: 1. not taken up by scheduled activities. 2. thin and fit. 3. save or relieve from an experience or action. 4. kept in reserve especially for emergency use. 
SPARER: someone who refrains from injuring or destroying
SPARGE: agitate by introducing air or compressed gas
SPARID: spiny-finned food fishes of warm waters having well-developed teeth
SPARK: 1. a small but noticeable trace of some quality that might become stronger. 2. Scottish writer of satirical novels (born in 1918). 3. a small fragment of a burning substance thrown out by burning material or by friction. 4. emit or produce sparks. 
SPARSE: not dense
SPARTA: an ancient Greek city famous for military prowess; the dominant city of the Peloponnesus prior to the 4th century BC
SPASM: 1. a painful and involuntary muscular contraction. 2. (pathology) sudden constriction of a hollow organ (as a blood vessel). 
SPAT: 1. become permanently attached. 2. strike with a sound like that of falling rain. 3. come down like raindrops. 4. engage in a brief and petty quarrel. 5. spawn. 
SPATHE: a conspicuous bract surrounding or subtending a spadix or other inflorescence
SPAVIN: a swelling of the hock joint of a horse; resulting in lameness
SPAWN: 1. the mass of eggs deposited by fish or amphibians or molluscs. 2. lay spawn. 
SPEAK: 1. use language. 2. make a characteristic or natural sound. 
SPEAR: 1. pierce with a spear. 2. thrust up like a spear. 
SPECK: produce specks in or on
SPEECH: 1. (language) communication by word of mouth. 2. something spoken. 3. the exchange of spoken words. 
SPEED: 1. distance travelled per unit time. 2. a rate (usually rapid) at which something happens. 3. changing location rapidly. 4. travel at an excessive or illegal velocity. 
SPEER: German Nazi architect who worked for Hitler (1905-1981)
SPELL: 1. relieve (someone) from work by taking a turn. 2. orally recite the letters of or give the spelling of. 3. indicate or signify. 4. write or name the letters that comprise the conventionally accepted form of (a word or part of a word). 5. place under a spell. 6. take turns working. 
SPELT: hardy wheat grown mostly in Europe for livestock feed
SPEND: 1. pass time in a specific way. 2. pay out. 3. spend completely. 
SPERM: the male reproductive cell; the male gamete
SPEW: eject or send out in large quantities, also metaphorical
SPHERE: 1. a particular environment or walk of life. 2. any spherically shaped artifact. 3. the geographical area in which one nation is very influential. 4. a solid figure bounded by a spherical surface (including the space it encloses). 5. a three-dimensional closed surface such that every point on the surface is equidistant from the center. 
SPHINX: 1. an inscrutable person who keeps his thoughts and intentions secret. 2. (Greek mythology) a riddling winged monster with a woman's head and breast on a lion's body; daughter of Typhon. 3. one of a number of large stone statues with the body of a lion and the head of a man that were built by the ancient Egyptians. 
SPY: 1. (military) a secret agent hired by a state to obtain information about its enemies or by a business to obtain industrial secrets from competitors. 2. watch, observe, or inquire secretly. 3. catch sight of; to perceive with the eyes. 4. secretly collect sensitive or classified information; engage in espionage. 
SPIC: (ethnic slur) offensive term for persons of Latin American descent
SPICA: the brightest star in Virgo
SPICE: 1. make more interesting or flavorful. 2. any of a variety of pungent aromatic vegetable substances used for flavoring food. 
SPIDER: 1. predatory arachnid with eight legs, two poison fangs, two feelers, and usually two silk-spinning organs at the back end of the body; they spin silk to make cocoons for eggs or traps for prey. 2. a computer program that prowls the internet looking for publicly accessible resources that can be added to a database; the database can then be searched with a search engine. 3. a skillet made of cast iron. 
SPIEL: 1. plausible glib talk (especially useful to a salesperson). 2. speak at great length (about something). 
SPIFF: attractiveness in appearance or dress or manner
SPYING: 1. keeping a secret or furtive watch. 2. the act of keeping a secret watch for intelligence purposes. 
SPIKE: 1. stand in the way of. 2. sports equipment consisting of a sharp point on the sole of a shoe worn by athletes. 3. bring forth a spike or spikes. 4. add alcohol to (beverages). 5. each of the sharp points on the soles of athletic shoes to prevent slipping (or the shoes themselves). 6. a sharp-pointed projection along the top of a fence or wall (or a dinosaur). 7. a long, thin sharp-pointed implement (wood or metal). 8. any holding device consisting of a rigid, sharp-pointed object. 9. a large stout nail. 10. secure with spikes. 11. manifest a sharp increase. 
SPIKED: having a long sharp point
SPILL: 1. cause or allow (a liquid substance) to run or flow from a container. 2. cause or allow (a solid substance) to flow or run out or over. 3. pour out in drops or small quantities or as if in drops or small quantities. 4. flow, run or fall out and become lost. 5. reveal information. 6. reduce the pressure of wind on (a sail). 
SPIN: 1. revolve quickly and repeatedly around one's own axis. 2. stream in jets, of liquids. 3. a short drive in a car. 4. form a web by making a thread. 5. make up a story. 6. work natural fibers into a thread. 7. twist and turn so as to give an intended interpretation. 8. prolong or extend. 
SPINAL: of or relating to the spine or spinal cord
SPINE: 1. a small sharp-pointed tip resembling a spike on a stem or leaf. 2. the part of a book's cover that encloses the inner side of the book's pages and that faces outward when the book is shelved. 3. a sharp rigid animal process or appendage; as a porcupine quill or a ridge on a bone or a ray of a fish fin. 
SPINEL: a hard glassy mineral consisting of an oxide of magnesium and aluminum; occurs in various colors that are used as gemstones
SPINET: 1. a small and compactly built upright piano. 2. early model harpsichord with only one string per note. 
SPIRAL: 1. a plane curve traced by a point circling about the center but at increasing distances from the center. 2. a continuously accelerating change in the economy. 3. ornament consisting of a curve on a plane that winds around a center with an increasing distance from the center. 4. flying downward in a helical path with a large radius. 5. form a spiral. 
SPIREA: 1. a Japanese shrub that resembles members of the genus Spiraea; widely cultivated in many varieties for its dense panicles of flowers in many colors; often forced by florists for Easter blooming. 2. any rosaceous plant of the genus Spiraea; has sprays of small white or pink flowers. 
SPIRIT: 1. infuse with spirit. 2. the general atmosphere of a place or situation and the effect that it has on people. 3. a fundamental emotional and activating principle determining one's character. 4. any incorporeal supernatural being that can become visible (or audible) to human beings. 
SPIT: 1. expel or eject (saliva or phlegm or sputum) from the mouth. 2. a skewer for holding meat over a fire. 3. the act of spitting (forcefully expelling saliva). 4. utter with anger or contempt. 
SPITZ: any of various stocky heavy-coated breeds of dogs native to northern regions having pointed muzzles and erect ears with a curled furry tail
SPIV: a person without employment who makes money by various dubious schemes; goes about smartly dressed and having a good time
SPLAY: turned outward in an ungainly manner
SPLASH: 1. the sound like water splashing. 2. mark or overlay with patches of contrasting color or texture; cause to appear splashed or spattered. 3. soil or stain with a splashed liquid. 4. make a splashing sound. 5. strike and dash about in a liquid. 
SPLAT: 1. give off the sound of a bullet flattening on impact. 2. split open and flatten for cooking. 3. flatten on impact. 
SPLEEN: a large dark-red oval organ on the left side of the body between the stomach and the diaphragm; produces cells involved in immune responses
SPLICE: 1. join the ends of. 2. join together so as to form new genetic combinations. 3. join by interweaving strands. 
SPLINE: a flexible strip (wood or rubber) used in drawing curved lines
SPLINT: 1. support with a splint. 2. an orthopedic mechanical device used to immobilize and protect a part of the body (as a broken leg). 
SPLIT: 1. extending the legs at right angles to the trunk (one in front and the other in back). 2. (especially of wood) cut or ripped longitudinally with the grain. 3. a promised or claimed share of loot or money. 4. a lengthwise crack in wood. 5. an old Croatian city on the Adriatic Sea. 6. a dessert of sliced fruit and ice cream covered with whipped cream and cherries and nuts. 7. (tenpin bowling) a divided formation of pins left standing after the first bowl. 8. an increase in the number of outstanding shares of a corporation without changing the shareholders' equity. 
SPODE: 1. English potter who started a pottery famous for its bone china (1754-1827). 2. a brand of fine English porcelain. 
SPOIL: 1. (usually plural) valuables taken by violence (especially in war). 2. become unfit for consumption or use. 3. the act of stripping and taking by force. 
SPOKE: support consisting of a radial member of a wheel joining the hub to the rim
SPOKEN: uttered through the medium of speech or characterized by speech; sometimes used in combination
SPONGE: 1. wipe with a sponge, so as to clean or moisten. 2. soak up with a sponge. 3. erase with a sponge; as of words on a blackboard. 4. gather sponges, in the ocean. 
SPONGY: 1. easily squashed; resembling a sponge in having soft porous texture and compressibility. 2. like a sponge in being able to absorb liquids and yield it back when compressed. 
SPOOF: make a parody of
SPOOK: frighten or scare, and often provoke into a violent action
SPOOL: 1. transfer data intended for a peripheral device (usually a printer) into temporary storage. 2. wind onto a spool or a reel. 
SPOON: 1. scoop up or take up with a spoon. 2. as much as a spoon will hold. 3. formerly a golfing wood with an elevated face. 
SPOOR: the trail left by a person or an animal; what the hunter follows in pursuing game
SPORE: a small usually single-celled asexual reproductive body produced by many nonflowering plants and fungi and some bacteria and protozoans and that are capable of developing into a new individual without sexual fusion
SPORT: 1. wear or display in an ostentatious or proud manner. 2. the occupation of athletes who compete for pay. 3. (Maine colloquial) a temporary summer resident of Maine. 4. a person known for the way she (or he) behaves when teased or defeated or subjected to trying circumstances. 5. someone who engages in sports. 
SPORTY: appropriate for sport or engagement in a sport
SPOT: 1. detect with the senses. 2. become spotted. 3. mark with a spot or spots so as to allow easy recognition. 4. a business establishment for entertainment. 5. a small piece or quantity of something. 6. a mark on a die or on a playing card (shape depending on the suit). 7. a playing card with a specified number of pips on it to indicate its value. 8. make a spot or mark onto. 
SPOTTY: lacking consistency
SPOUSE: a person's partner in marriage
SPOUT: an opening that allows the passage of liquids or grain
SPRAG: a chock or bar wedged under a wheel or between the spokes to prevent a vehicle from rolling down an incline
SPRAY: 1. be discharged in sprays of liquid. 2. scatter in a mass or jet of droplets. 3. cover by spraying with a liquid. 4. water in small drops in the atmosphere; blown from waves or thrown up by a waterfall. 5. a jet of vapor. 
SPRAIN: a painful injury to a joint caused by a sudden wrenching of its ligaments
SPRAT: small fatty European fish; usually smoked or canned like sardines
SPRAWL: 1. go, come, or spread in a rambling or irregular way. 2. sit or lie with one's limbs spread out. 
SPREAD: 1. distribute or disperse widely. 2. a tasty mixture to be spread on bread or crackers or used in preparing other dishes. 3. strew or distribute over an area. 4. the expansion of a person's girth (especially at middle age). 5. distribute over a surface in a layer. 6. prepared or arranged for a meal; especially having food set out. 7. spread across or over. 8. cover by spreading something over. 
SPREE: engage without restraint in an activity and indulge, as when shopping
SPRIG: an ornament that resembles a spray of leaves or flowers
SPRING: 1. the season of growth. 2. a metal elastic device that returns to its shape or position when pushed or pulled or pressed. 3. a natural flow of ground water. 4. develop suddenly. 5. produce or disclose suddenly or unexpectedly. 
SPRINT: run very fast, usually for a short distance
SPRIT: a light spar that crosses a fore-and-aft sail diagonally
SPRITZ: 1. eject (a liquid) quickly. 2. cover (a location) wholly or partially by squirting a liquid onto it. 
SPROUT: 1. any new growth of a plant such as a new branch or a bud. 2. put forth and grow sprouts or shoots. 
SPRUCE: 1. light soft moderately strong wood of spruce trees; used especially for timbers and millwork. 2. any coniferous tree of the genus Picea. 
SPRUE: a chronic disorder that occurs in tropical and non-tropical forms and in both children and adults; nutrients are not absorbed; symptoms include foul-smelling diarrhea and emaciation
SPUD: 1. a sharp hand shovel for digging out roots and weeds. 2. initiate drilling operations, as for petroleum. 
SPUME: foam or froth on the sea
SPUR: 1. give heart or courage to. 2. strike with a spur. 3. goad with spurs. 4. incite or stimulate. 5. equip with spurs. 
SPURGE: any of numerous plants of the genus Euphorbia; usually having milky often poisonous juice
SPURT: gush forth in a sudden stream or jet
SQUAB: 1. short and fat. 2. a soft padded sofa. 3. an unfledged pigeon. 
SQUAD: a smallest army unit
SQUALL: 1. make high-pitched, whiney noises. 2. blow in a squall. 
SQUAMA: a protective structure resembling a scale
SQUARE: 1. having four equal sides and four right angles or forming a right angle. 2. raise to the second power. 3. leaving no balance. 4. without evasion or compromise. 5. rigidly conventional or old-fashioned. 6. any artifact having a shape similar to a plane geometric figure with four equal sides and four right angles. 7. a hand tool consisting of two straight arms at right angles; used to construct or test right angles. 8. cause to match, as of ideas or acts. 
SQUASH: 1. to compress with violence, out of natural shape or condition. 2. edible fruit of a squash plant; eaten as a vegetable. 3. a game played in an enclosed court by two or four players who strike the ball with long-handled rackets. 
SQUAT: 1. occupy (a dwelling) illegally. 2. sit on one's heels. 3. having a low center of gravity; built low to the ground. 
SQUAW: an American Indian woman
SQUAWK: utter a harsh abrupt scream
SQUEAK: a short high-pitched noise
SQUEAL: utter a high-pitched cry, characteristic of pigs
SQUIB: firework consisting of a tube filled with powder (as a broken firecracker) that burns with a fizzing noise
SQUID: 1. (Italian cuisine) squid prepared as food. 2. widely distributed fast-moving ten-armed cephalopod mollusk having a long tapered body with triangular tail fins. 
SQUILL: bulb of the sea squill, which is sliced, dried, and used as an expectorant
SQUINT: 1. be cross-eyed; have a squint or strabismus. 2. cross one's eyes as if in strabismus. 3. partly close one's eyes, as when hit by direct blinding light. 
SQUIRE: 1. attend upon as a squire; serve as a squire. 2. an English country landowner. 3. a man who attends or escorts a woman. 
SQUIRT: 1. cause to come out in a squirt. 2. wet with a spurt of liquid. 
SQUISH: 1. the noise of soft mud being walked on. 2. put (a liquid) into a container or another place by means of a squirting action. 
STAB: stab or pierce
STABLE: 1. resistant to change of position or condition. 2. firm and dependable; subject to little fluctuation. 3. not taking part readily in chemical change. 4. maintaining equilibrium. 
STABLY: 1. in a stable solid fixed manner. 2. in a stable unchanging manner. 
STACK: 1. load or cover with stacks. 2. arrange in stacks. 3. arrange the order of so as to increase one's winning chances. 
STACKS: storage space in a library consisting of an extensive arrangement of bookshelves where most of the books are stored
STACTE: (Old Testament) one of several sweet-smelling spices used in incense
STAFF: 1. provide with staff. 2. serve on the staff of. 3. the body of teachers and administrators at a school. 4. building material consisting of plaster and hair; used to cover external surfaces of temporary structure (as at an exposition) or for decoration. 5. a rod carried as a symbol. 6. (music) the system of five horizontal lines on which the musical notes are written. 
STAFFA: an island in western Scotland in the Inner Hebrides to the west of Mull; site of Fingal's Cave
STAG: 1. adult male deer. 2. attend a dance or a party without a female companion. 
STAGE: 1. a large platform on which people can stand and can be seen by an audience. 2. the theater as a profession (usually `the stage'). 3. a section or portion of a journey or course. 4. any scene regarded as a setting for exhibiting or doing something. 5. a small platform on a microscope where the specimen is mounted for examination. 6. perform (a play), especially on a stage. 7. plan, organize, and carry out (an event). 
STAGED: written for or performed on the stage
STAGY: having characteristics of the stage especially an artificial and mannered quality
STAY: 1. stay the same; remain in a certain state. 2. a judicial order forbidding some action until an event occurs or the order is lifted. 3. continue in a place, position, or situation. 4. remain behind. 5. stay put (in a certain place); we are not moving to Cincinnati". 6. stop or halt. 7. stop a judicial process. 8. fasten with stays. 
STAYER: a person or other animal having powers of endurance or perseverance
STAIN: 1. color with a liquid dye or tint. 2. produce or leave stains. 3. color for microscopic study. 
STAIRS: a flight of stairs or a flight of steps
STAKE: 1. mark with a stake. 2. tie or fasten to a stake. 3. a strong wooden or metal post with a point at one end so it can be driven into the ground. 
STALE: lacking freshness, palatability, or showing deterioration from age
STALIN: Russian leader who succeeded Lenin as head of the Communist Party and created a totalitarian state by purging all opposition (1879-1953)
STALK: 1. a slender or elongated structure that supports a plant or fungus or a plant part or plant organ. 2. go through (an area) in search of prey. 3. the act of following prey stealthily. 4. a stiff or threatening gait. 5. walk stiffly. 
STALL: 1. a compartment in a stable where a single animal is confined and fed. 2. deliberately delay an event or action. 3. put into, or keep in, a stall. 4. experience a stall in flight, of airplanes. 5. cause an engine to stop. 6. come to a stop. 7. cause an airplane to go into a stall. 
STAMEN: the male reproductive organ of a flower
STAMP: 1. to mark, or produce an imprint in or on something. 2. reveal clearly as having a certain character. 3. form or cut out with a mold, form, or die. 4. crush or grind with a heavy instrument. 5. affix a stamp to. 6. destroy or extinguish as if by stamping with the foot. 
STANCE: standing posture
STAND: 1. be in some specified state or condition. 2. occupy a place or location, also metaphorically. 3. hold one's ground; maintain a position; be steadfast or upright. 4. have or maintain a position or stand on an issue. 5. be tall; have a height of; copula. 6. put into an upright position. 7. be available for stud services. 8. be standing; be upright. 9. remain inactive or immobile. 10. be in effect; be or remain in force. 
STANZA: a fixed number of lines of verse forming a unit of a poem
STAPES: the stirrup-shaped ossicle that transmits sound from the incus to the cochlea
STAPLE: 1. a natural fiber (raw cotton, wool, hemp, flax) that can be twisted to form yarn. 2. a short U-shaped wire nail for securing cables. 3. paper fastener consisting of a short length of U-shaped wire that can fasten papers together. 4. necessary or important, especially regarding food or commodities. 
STAR: 1. feature as the star. 2. mark with an asterisk. 3. an actor who plays a principal role. 4. a plane figure with 5 or more points; often used as an emblem. 5. be the star in a performance. 
STARCH: 1. stiffen with starch. 2. a commercial preparation of starch that is used to stiffen textile fabrics in laundering. 
STARE: 1. a fixed look with eyes open wide. 2. fixate one's eyes. 
STARER: a viewer who gazes fixedly (often with hostility)
STARK: 1. complete or extreme. 2. completely. 
STARR: rock star and drummer for the Beatles (born in 1940)
STARRY: abounding with or resembling stars
START: 1. the beginning of anything. 2. a turn to be a starter (in a game at the beginning). 3. get off the ground. 4. get going or set in motion. 5. begin or set in motion. 6. begin work or acting in a certain capacity, office or job. 7. play in the starting lineup. 8. bulge outward. 
STARVE: 1. be hungry; go without food. 2. die of food deprivation. 3. deprive of food. 4. deprive of a necessity and cause suffering. 
STASIS: 1. an abnormal state in which the normal flow of a liquid (such as blood) is slowed or stopped. 2. inactivity resulting from a static balance between opposing forces. 
STATE: 1. express in words. 2. the way something is with respect to its main attributes. 3. the group of people comprising the government of a sovereign state. 4. a politically organized body of people under a single government. 5. a state of depression or agitation. 
STATER: 1. any of the various silver or gold coins of ancient Greece. 2. a resident of a particular state or group of states. 
STATIC: 1. a crackling or hissing noise caused by electrical interference. 2. angry criticism. 3. showing little if any change. 
STATOR: mechanical device consisting of the stationary part of a motor or generator in or around which the rotor revolves
STATUE: a sculpture representing a human or animal
STATUS: the relative position or standing of things or especially persons in a society
STAVE: 1. burst or force (a hole) into something. 2. furnish with staves. 
STEAD: the post or function properly or customarily occupied or served by another
STEADY: 1. not subject to change or variation especially in behavior. 2. securely in position; not shaky. 3. not easily excited or upset. 
STEAK: a slice of meat cut from the fleshy part of an animal or large fish
STEAL: 1. move stealthily. 2. take without the owner's consent. 3. steal a base. 
STEAM: 1. water at boiling temperature diffused in the atmosphere. 2. emit steam. 3. rise as vapor. 4. get very angry. 5. clean by means of steaming. 6. cook something by letting steam pass over it. 
STEED: (literary) a spirited horse for state or war
STEEL: 1. get ready for something difficult or unpleasant. 2. knife sharpener consisting of a ridged steel rod. 3. cover, plate, or edge with steel. 
STEELE: English writer (1672-1729)
STEELY: 1. resembling steel as in hardness. 2. resembling steel in hardness. 
STEEN: Dutch genre painter (1626-1679)
STEEP: 1. having a sharp inclination. 2. let sit in a liquid to extract a flavor or to cleanse. 3. of a slope; set at a high angle. 
STEER: 1. direct the course; determine the direction of travelling. 2. direct (oneself) somewhere. 
STELE: 1. the usually cylindrical central vascular portion of the axis of a vascular plant. 2. an ancient upright stone slab bearing markings. 
STEM: 1. remove the stem from. 2. grow out of, have roots in, originate in. 3. cause to point inward. 4. stop the flow of a liquid. 
STEMMA: a tree diagram showing a reconstruction of the transmission of manuscripts of a literary work
STENT: a slender tube inserted inside a tubular body part (as a blood vessel) to provide support during and after surgical anastomosis
STEP: 1. cause (a computer) to execute a single command. 2. support consisting of a place to rest the foot while ascending or descending a stairway. 3. move with one's feet in a specific manner. 4. move or proceed as if by steps into a new situation. 5. shift or move by taking a step. 6. put down or press the foot, place the foot. 7. furnish with steps. 8. walk a short distance to a specified place or in a specified manner. 9. place (a ship's mast) in its step. 
STEPPE: extensive plain without trees (associated with eastern Russia and Siberia)
STEPS: the course along which a person has walked or is walking in
STEREO: 1. reproducer in which two microphones feed two or more loudspeakers to give a three-dimensional effect to the sound. 2. two photographs taken from slightly different angles that appear three-dimensional when viewed together. 
STERN: 1. the rear part of a ship. 2. United States concert violinist (born in Russia in 1920). 3. severe and unremitting in making demands. 
STERNA: a genus of Sterninae
STERNE: English writer (born in Ireland) (1713-1766)
STEROL: any of a group of natural steroid alcohols derived from plants or animals; they are waxy insoluble substances
STET: 1. printing: cancel, as of a correction or deletion. 2. printing: direct that a matter marked for omission or correction is to be retained (used in the imperative). 
STEVIA: 1. any plant of the genus Stevia or the closely related genus Piqueria having glutinous foliage and white or purplish flowers; Central and South America. 2. any plant of the genus Piqueria or the closely related genus Stevia. 
STEW: 1. bear a grudge; harbor ill feelings. 2. cook slowly and for a long time in liquid. 
STHENE: a unit of force equal to 1000 newtons
STHENO: (Greek mythology) one of the three Gorgons
STY: 1. an infection of the sebaceous gland of the eyelid. 2. a pen for swine. 
STICK: 1. an implement consisting of a length of wood. 2. a small thin branch of a tree. 3. a lever used by a pilot to control the ailerons and elevators of an airplane. 4. be or become fixed. 5. a long implement (usually made of wood) that is shaped so that hockey or polo players can hit a puck or ball. 6. a long thin implement resembling a length of wood. 7. fasten with an adhesive material like glue. 8. endure. 9. cover and decorate with objects that pierce the surface. 10. fasten with or as with pins or nails. 11. fasten into place by fixing an end or point into something. 12. pierce with a thrust using a pointed instrument. 13. pierce or penetrate or puncture with something pointed. 14. saddle with something disagreeable or disadvantageous. 
STICKY: 1. moist as with undried perspiration and with clothing sticking to the body. 2. covered with an adhesive material. 
STIFF: 1. extremely. 2. powerful. 
STIFLE: 1. joint between the femur and tibia in a quadruped; corresponds to the human knee. 2. smother or suppress. 
STIGMA: 1. the apical end of the style where deposited pollen enters the pistil. 2. an external tracheal aperture in a terrestrial arthropod. 3. a skin lesion that is a diagnostic sign of some disease. 
STILE: an upright that is a member in a door or window frame
STYLE: 1. make consistent with certain rules of style. 2. (botany) the narrow elongated part of the pistil between the ovary and the stigma. 3. editorial directions to be followed in spelling and punctuation and capitalization and typographical display. 4. a slender bristlelike or tubular process. 5. designate by an identifying term. 6. make consistent with a certain fashion or style. 
STYLET: small needlelike appendage; especially the feeding organ of a tardigrade
STILL: 1. with reference to action or condition; without change, interruption, or cessation. 2. lessen the intensity of or calm. 3. without moving or making a sound. 4. not sparkling. 5. free from noticeable current. 
STILLY: (poetic) still or calm
STILT: 1. one of two stout poles with foot rests in the middle; used for walking high above the ground. 2. long-legged three-toed wading bird of brackish marshes of Australia. 3. long-legged three-toed black-and-white wading bird of inland ponds and marshes or brackish lagoons. 
STYLUS: 1. a sharp pointed device attached to the cartridge of a record player. 2. a pointed tool for writing or drawing or engraving. 
STYMIE: 1. a situation in golf where an opponent's ball blocks the line between your ball and the hole. 2. a thwarting and distressing situation. 
STING: 1. a kind of pain; something as sudden and painful as being stung. 2. a painful wound caused by the thrust of an insect's stinger into skin. 3. deliver a sting to. 4. cause an emotional pain, as if by stinging. 
STINGY: unwilling to spend
STINK: be extremely bad in quality or in one's performance
STINT: 1. an individual's prescribed share of work. 2. supply sparingly and with restricted quantities. 
STIPE: supporting stalk or stem-like structure especially of a pistil or fern frond or supporting a mushroom cap
STIR: 1. move an implement through. 2. move very slightly. 3. mix or add by stirring. 
STYRAX: any shrub or small tree of the genus Styrax having fragrant bell-shaped flowers that hang below the dark green foliage
STIRK: yearling heifer or bullock
STITCH: 1. a link or loop or knot made by an implement in knitting, crocheting, embroidery, or sewing. 2. a sharp spasm of pain in the side resulting from running. 
STYX: (Greek mythology) a river in Hades across which Charon carried dead souls
STOAT: the ermine in its brown summer coat with black-tipped tail
STOB: a short straight stick of wood
STOCK: 1. have on hand. 2. routine. 3. supply with fish. 4. the reputation and popularity a person has. 5. persistent thickened stem of a herbaceous perennial plant. 6. a plant or stem onto which a graft is made; especially a plant grown specifically to provide the root part of grafted plants. 7. any of several Old World plants cultivated for their brightly colored flowers. 8. lumber used in the construction of something. 9. the handle end of some implements or tools. 10. supply with livestock. 11. amass so as to keep for future use or sale or for a particular occasion or use. 12. provide or furnish with a stock of something. 
STOCKS: 1. a frame that supports a boat while it is under construction. 2. a frame for constraining an animal while it is receiving veterinary attention or while being shod. 3. a former instrument of punishment consisting of a heavy timber frame with holes in which the feet (and sometimes the hands) of an offender could be locked. 
STODGE: heavy and filling (and usually starchy) food
STODGY: 1. heavy and starchy and hard to digest. 2. excessively conventional and unimaginative and hence dull. 
STOGY: a cheap cigar
STOIC: 1. seeming unaffected by pleasure or pain; impassive. 2. pertaining to Stoicism or its followers. 
STOKE: stir up or tend; of a fire
STOKER: 1. Irish writer of the horror novel about Dracula (1847-1912). 2. a laborer who tends fires (as on a coal-fired train or steamship). 3. a mechanical device for stoking a furnace. 
STOLE: a wide scarf worn about their shoulders by women
STOLON: a horizontal branch from the base of plant that produces new plants from buds at its tips
STOMA: 1. a minute epidermal pore in a leaf or stem through which gases and water vapor can pass. 2. a mouth or mouthlike opening (especially one created by surgery on the surface of the body to create an opening to an internal organ). 
STOMP: walk heavily
STONE: 1. building material consisting of a piece of rock hewn in a definite shape for a special purpose. 2. an avoirdupois unit used to measure the weight of a human body; equal to 14 pounds. 3. the hard inner (usually woody) layer of the pericarp of some fruits (as peaches or plums or cherries or olives) that contains the seed. 4. United States jurist who was named chief justice of the United States Supreme Court in 1941 by Franklin D. Roosevelt (1872-1946). 5. United States filmmaker (born in 1946). 6. United States feminist and suffragist (1818-1893). 7. United States journalist who advocated liberal causes (1907-1989). 8. United States jurist who served on the United States Supreme Court as chief justice (1872-1946). 9. United States architect (1902-1978). 10. a lack of feeling or expression or movement. 11. of any of various dull tannish or grey colors. 
STONER: an attacker who pelts the victim with stones (especially with intent to kill)
STOOGE: 1. cruise in slow or routine flights. 2. act as the stooge. 3. act as a stooge, in a compliant or subordinate manner. 
STOOL: 1. lure with a stool, as of wild fowl. 2. grow shoots in the form of stools or tillers. 3. react to a decoy, of wildfowl. 4. have a bowel movement. 
STOOP: 1. an inclination of the top half of the body forward and downward. 2. descend swiftly, as if on prey. 3. sag, bend, bend over or down. 4. carry oneself, often habitually, with head, shoulders, and upper back bent forward. 
STOP: 1. come to a halt, stop moving. 2. the act of stopping something. 3. stop from happening or developing. 4. cause to stop. 5. (music) a knob on an organ that is pulled to change the sound quality from the organ pipes. 6. interrupt a trip. 
STOPES: birth-control campaigner who in 1921 opened the first birth control clinic in London (1880-1958)
STORAX: a vanilla-scented resin from various trees of the genus Styrax
STORE: 1. find a place for and put away for storage. 2. keep or lay aside for future use. 
STORY: a piece of fiction that narrates a chain of related events
STORK: large mostly Old World wading birds typically having white-and-black plumage
STORM: 1. a violent weather condition with winds 64-72 knots (11 on the Beaufort scale) and precipitation and thunder and lightning. 2. take by force. 3. rain, hail, or snow hard and be very windy, often with thunder or lightning. 4. blow hard. 5. attack by storm; attack suddenly. 
STORMY: 1. (especially of weather) affected or characterized by storms or commotion. 2. characterized by violent emotions or behavior. 
STOUP: 1. an archaic drinking vessel. 2. basin for holy water. 
STOUT: 1. a strong very dark heavy-bodied ale made from pale malt and roasted unmalted barley and (often) caramel malt with hops. 2. a garment size for a large or heavy person. 
STOVE: 1. a kitchen appliance used for cooking food. 2. any heating apparatus. 
STOVER: the dried stalks and leaves of a field crop (especially corn) used as animal fodder after the grain has been harvested
STOW: fill by packing tightly
STRAFE: attack with machine guns or cannon fire from a low-flying plane
STRAY: 1. an animal that has strayed (especially a domestic animal). 2. (of an animal) having no home or having wandered away from home. 
STRAIN: 1. (physics) deformation of a physical body under the action of applied forces. 2. (psychology) nervousness resulting from mental stress. 3. injury to a muscle (often caused by overuse); results in swelling and pain. 4. an intense or violent exertion. 5. use to the utmost; exert vigorously or to full capacity. 6. become stretched or tense or taut. 
STRAIT: narrow
STRAND: 1. a pattern forming a unity within a larger structural whole. 2. drive (a vessel) ashore. 3. a poetic term for a shore (as the area periodically covered and uncovered by the tides). 4. a street in west central London famous for its theaters and hotels. 
STRAP: 1. tie with a strap. 2. hanger consisting of a loop of leather suspended from the ceiling of a bus or train; passengers hold onto it. 3. sharpen with a strap. 4. secure (a sprained joint) with a strap. 
STRAW: 1. of a pale yellow color like straw; straw-colored. 2. a thin paper or plastic tube used to suck liquids into the mouth. 
STREAK: 1. move quickly in a straight line. 2. run naked in a public place. 3. a sudden flash (as of lightning). 
STREAM: 1. to extend, wave or float outward, as if in the wind. 2. exude profusely. 3. something that resembles a flowing stream in moving continuously. 4. flow freely and abundantly. 
STREET: 1. a thoroughfare (usually including sidewalks) that is lined with buildings. 2. the part of a thoroughfare between the sidewalks; the part of the thoroughfare on which vehicles travel. 3. the streets of a city viewed as a depressed environment in which there is poverty and crime and prostitution and dereliction. 4. a situation offering opportunities. 5. people living or working on the same street. 
STRESS: 1. to stress, single out as important. 2. special emphasis attached to something. 3. difficulty that causes worry or emotional tension. 4. (physics) force that produces strain on a physical body. 5. put stress on; utter with an accent. 
STREW: 1. spread by scattering ("straw" is archaic). 2. cover; be dispersed over. 
STRIA: any of a number of tiny parallel grooves such as: the scratches left by a glacier on rocks or the streaks or ridges in muscle tissue
STRIDE: 1. significant progress (especially in the phrase "make strides"). 2. walk with long steps. 3. cover or traverse by taking long steps. 
STRIFE: bitter conflict; heated often violent dissension
STRIKE: 1. deliver a sharp blow, as with the hand, fist, or weapon. 2. an attack that is intended to seize or inflict damage on or destroy an objective. 3. make a strategic, offensive, assault against an enemy, opponent, or a target. 4. indicate (a certain time) by striking. 5. stop work in order to press demands. 6. produce by manipulating keys or strings of musical instruments, also metaphorically. 7. cause to form (an electric arc) between electrodes of an arc lamp. 8. produce by ignition or a blow. 9. remove by erasing or crossing out or as if by drawing a line. 10. pierce with force. 11. arrive at after reckoning, deliberating, and weighing. 
STRING: 1. thread on or as if on a string. 2. move or come along. 3. stretch out or arrange like a string. 4. string together; tie or fasten with a string. 5. provide with strings. 6. (cosmology) a hypothetical one-dimensional subatomic particle having a concentration of energy and the dynamic properties of a flexible loop. 7. a collection of objects threaded on a single strand. 8. add as if on a string. 9. remove the stringy parts of. 
STRIP: 1. a relatively long narrow piece of something. 2. artifact consisting of a narrow flat piece of material. 3. thin piece of wood or metal. 4. a form of erotic entertainment in which a dancer gradually undresses to music. 5. remove the surface from. 6. strip the cured leaves from. 7. remove the thread (of screws). 8. remove a constituent from a liquid. 9. take off or remove. 10. draw the last milk (of cows). 11. remove (someone's or one's own) clothes. 
STRIPE: 1. a piece of braid, usually on the sleeve, indicating military rank or length of service. 2. a kind or category. 3. a narrow marking of a different color or texture from the background. 4. mark with stripes. 
STRIVE: to exert much effort or energy
STRIX: owls lacking ear tufts
STROKE: 1. touch lightly and repeatedly, as with brushing motions. 2. row at a particular rate. 3. treat gingerly or carefully. 4. a light touch with the hands. 5. (golf) the unit of scoring in golf is the act of hitting the ball with a club. 6. the oarsman nearest the stern of the shell who sets the pace for the rest of the crew. 7. a mark made on a surface by a pen, pencil, or paintbrush. 8. any one of the repeated movements of the limbs and body used for locomotion in swimming or rowing. 9. a single complete movement. 10. strike a ball with a smooth blow. 
STROLL: walk leisurely and with no apparent aim
STROMA: 1. a mass of fungal tissue that has spore-bearing structures embedded in it or on it. 2. the dense colorless framework of a chloroplast. 3. the supporting tissue of an organ (as opposed to parenchyma). 
STRONG: 1. having strength or power greater than average or expected. 2. not faint or feeble. 3. of verbs not having standard (or regular) inflection. 4. freshly made or left. 
STROP: sharpen on a strop
STRUM: sound the strings of (a string instrument)
STRUNG: that is on a string
STRUT: 1. a proud stiff pompous gait. 2. brace consisting of a bar or rod used to resist longitudinal compression. 
STUART: 1. United States painter best known for his portraits of George Washington (1755-1828). 2. a member of the royal family that ruled Scotland and England. 3. the royal family that ruled Scotland from 1371-1714 and ruled England from 1603 to 1649 and again from 1660 to 1714. 
STUB: 1. pull up (weeds) by their roots. 2. clear of weeds by uprooting them. 3. strike (one's toe) accidentally against an object. 4. extinguish by crushing. 
STUBBY: short and blunt
STUBBS: English historian noted for his constitutional history of medieval England (1825-1901)
STUCCO: 1. decorate with stucco work. 2. coat with stucco. 
STUCK: 1. caught or fixed. 2. baffled. 
STUD: 1. a man who is virile and sexually active. 2. provide with or construct with studs. 3. adult male horse kept for breeding. 4. poker in which each player receives hole cards and the remainder are dealt face up; bets are placed after each card is dealt. 
STUDY: 1. be a student; follow a course of study; be enrolled at an institute of learning. 2. a state of deep mental absorption. 3. learn by reading books; I must hit the books now". 4. someone who memorizes quickly and easily (as the lines for a part in a play). 5. a composition intended to develop one aspect of the performer's technique. 6. give careful consideration to. 7. think intently and at length, as for spiritual purposes. 
STUDIO: 1. workplace for the teaching or practice of an art. 2. workplace consisting of a room or building where movies or television shows or radio programs are produced and recorded. 
STUFF: 1. miscellaneous unspecified objects. 2. obstruct. 3. senseless talk. 4. treat with grease, fill, and prepare for mounting. 5. fill tightly with a material. 6. a critically important or characteristic component. 7. cram into a cavity. 
STUFFY: affected with a sensation of stoppage or obstruction
STUMP: 1. cause to be perplexed or confounded. 2. the part of a limb or tooth that remains after the rest is removed. 3. travel through a district and make political speeches. 4. remove tree stumps from. 
STUN: 1. make senseless or dizzy by or as if by a blow. 2. overcome as with astonishment or disbelief. 
STUNT: 1. check the growth or development of. 2. perform a stunt or stunts. 
STUPA: a dome-shaped shrine erected by Buddhists
STUPID: lacking or marked by lack of intellectual acuity
STURDY: substantially made or constructed
SUBLET: lease or rent all or part of (a leased or rented property) to another person
SUBMIT: 1. refer for judgment or consideration. 2. put before. 3. yield to the control of another. 4. yield to another's wish or opinion. 
SUBORN: 1. incite to commit a crime or an evil deed. 2. procure (false testimony or perjury). 3. induce to commit perjury or give false testimony. 
SUBSET: a set whose members are members of another set; a set contained within another set
SUBTLE: able to make fine distinctions
SUBTLY: in a subtle manner
SUBURB: a residential district located on the outskirts of a city
SUCCOR: help in a difficult situation
SUCH: to so extreme a degree
SUCK: 1. draw into the mouth by creating a practical vacuum in the mouth. 2. draw something in by or as if by a vacuum. 3. attract by using an inexorable force, inducement, etc.. 4. be inadequate or objectionable. 
SUCKER: 1. a shoot arising from a plant's roots. 2. a drinker who sucks (as at a nipple or through a straw). 3. flesh of any of numerous North American food fishes with toothless jaws. 4. an organ specialized for sucking nourishment or for adhering to objects by suction. 5. mostly North American freshwater fishes with a thick-lipped mouth for feeding by suction; related to carps. 
SUCKLE: suck milk from the mother's breasts
SUCRE: 1. the basic unit of money in Ecuador; equal to 100 centavos. 2. the judicial capital and seat of the judiciary in Bolivia. 
SUDAN: 1. a republic in northeastern Africa on the Red Sea; achieved independence from Egypt and the United Kingdom in 1956. 2. a region of northern Africa to the south of the Sahara and Libyan deserts; extends from the Atlantic to the Red Sea. 
SUDDEN: happening without warning or in a short space of time
SUDRA: the lowest of the four varnas: the servants and workers of low status
SUDS: 1. a dysphemism for beer (especially for lager that effervesces). 2. wash in suds. 
SUE: French writer whose novels described the sordid side of city life (1804-1857)
SUEDE: leather with a napped surface
SUER: someone who petitions a court for redress of a grievance or recovery of a right
SUET: hard fat around the kidneys and loins in beef and sheep
SUETY: like or full of suet
SUEZ: a city in northeastern Egypt at the head of the Gulf of Suez and at the southern end of the Suez Canal
SUFFER: 1. undergo or be subjected to. 2. undergo (as of injuries and illnesses). 3. experience (emotional) pain. 4. get worse. 5. feel pain or be in pain. 6. feel unwell or uncomfortable. 7. be given to. 8. undergo or suffer. 9. be set at a disadvantage. 
SUFFIX: attach a suffix to
SUFI: of or relating to the Sufis or to Sufism
SUFISM: Islamic mysticism
SUGAR: sweeten with sugar
SUGARY: containing sugar
SUIDAE: pigs; hogs; boars
SUIT: 1. be agreeable or acceptable to. 2. (slang) a businessman dressed in a business suit. 3. a petition or appeal made to a person of superior status or rank. 4. playing card in any of four sets of 13 cards in a pack; each set has its own symbol and color. 5. be agreeable or acceptable. 
SUITE: 1. a musical composition of several movements only loosely connected. 2. apartment consisting of a series of connected rooms used as a living unit (as in a hotel). 3. a matching set of furniture. 
SUITED: outfitted or supplied with clothing
SUITOR: a man who courts a woman
SULA: type genus of the Sulidae
SULCUS: (anatomy) any of the narrow grooves in an organ or tissue especially those that mark the convolutions on the surface of the brain
SULFUR: an abundant tasteless odorless multivalent nonmetallic element; best known in yellow crystals; occurs in many sulphide and sulphate minerals and even in native form (especially in volcanic regions)
SULK: be in a huff and display one's displeasure
SULKY: a light two-wheeled vehicle for one person; drawn by one horse
SULLA: Roman general and dictator (138-78 BC)
SULTAN: the ruler of a Muslim country (especially of the former Ottoman Empire)
SULTRY: characterized by oppressive heat and humidity
SUM: 1. a quantity of money. 2. a quantity obtained by the addition of a group of numbers. 3. the final aggregate. 4. the whole amount. 
SUMAC: 1. wood of a sumac. 2. a shrub or tree of the genus Rhus (usually limited to the non-poisonous members of the genus). 
SUMER: an area in the southern region of Babylonia in present-day Iraq; site of the Sumerian civilization of city-states that flowered during the third millennium BC
SUMMER: 1. spend the summer. 2. the period of finest development, happiness, or beauty. 
SUMMIT: 1. a meeting of heads of governments. 2. reach the summit (of a mountain). 
SUMMON: 1. call in an official matter, such as to attend court. 2. ask to come. 
SUMO: a Japanese form of wrestling; you lose if you are forced out of a small ring or if any part of your body (other than your feet) touches the ground
SUMP: 1. an oil reservoir in an internal combustion engine. 2. a well or other hole in which water has collected. 
SUN: 1. expose one's body to the sun. 2. a person considered as a source of warmth or energy or glory etc. 3. any star around which a planetary system revolves. 4. expose to the rays of the sun or affect by exposure to the sun. 
SUNDAY: 1. first day of the week; observed as a day of rest and worship by most Christians. 2. United States evangelist (1862-1935). 
SUNDER: break apart or in two, using violence
SUNDEW: any of various bog plants of the genus Drosera having leaves covered with sticky hairs that trap and digest insects; cosmopolitan in distribution
SUNG: the imperial dynasty of China from 960 to 1279; noted for art and literature and philosophy
SUNHAT: a hat with a broad brim that protects the face from direct exposure to the sun
SUNLIT: lighted by sunlight
SUNNI: one of the two main branches of orthodox Islam
SUNRAY: 1. herb having a basal cluster of grey-green leaves and leafless stalks each with a solitary broad yellow flower head; desert areas Idaho to Arizona. 2. a ray of artificial ultraviolet light from a sunray lamp. 
SUNSET: 1. of a declining industry or technology. 2. providing for termination. 3. the daily event of the sun sinking below the horizon. 
SUNTAN: get a tan from being exposed to the sun
SUP: take solid or liquid food into the mouth a little at a time either by drinking or by eating with a spoon
SUPER: 1. including more than a specified category. 2. extremely large. 
SUPERB: surpassingly good
SUPINE: lying face upward
SUPPER: 1. a light evening meal; served in early evening if dinner is at midday or served late in the evening at bedtime. 2. a social gathering where a light evening meal is served. 
SUPPLE: make pliant and flexible
SUPPLY: 1. give something useful or necessary to. 2. offering goods and services for sale. 
SUR: a port in southern Lebanon on the Mediterranean Sea; formerly a major Phoenician seaport famous for silks
SURA: one of the sections (or chapters) in the Koran
SURD: a consonant produced without sound from the vocal cords
SURE: 1. physically secure or dependable. 2. (of persons) worthy of trust or confidence. 3. infallible or unfailing. 4. certain not to fail. 
SURELY: definitely or positively (`sure' is sometimes used informally for `surely')
SURETY: something clearly established
SURF: 1. waves breaking on the shore. 2. switch channels, on television. 
SURFER: someone who engages in surfboarding
SURGE: 1. a sudden or abrupt strong increase. 2. see one's performance improve. 
SURYA: an important god of later Hinduism; the sun god or the sun itself worshipped as the source of warmth and light
SURLY: inclined to anger or bad feelings with overtones of menace
SURREY: 1. a county in southeastern England on the Thames. 2. a light four-wheeled horse-drawn carriage; has two or four seats. 
SURTAX: levy an extra tax on
SURVEY: 1. consider in a comprehensive way. 2. look over carefully or inspect. 3. make a survey of; for statistical purposes. 4. plot a map of (land). 
SUS: type genus of the Suidae
SUSHI: rice (with raw fish) wrapped in seaweed
SUSLIK: rather large central Eurasian ground squirrel
SUSSEX: a county in southern England on the English Channel; formerly an Anglo-Saxon kingdom that was captured by Wessex in the 9th century
SUTLER: a supplier of victuals or supplies to an army
SUTRA: a rule or aphorism in Sanskrit literature or a group of aphoristic doctrinal summaries prepared for memorization
SUTTEE: the act of a Hindu widow willingly cremating herself on the funeral pyre of her dead husband
SUTURE: 1. join with a suture. 2. a seam used in surgery. 3. thread of catgut or silk or wire used by surgeons to stitch tissues together. 
SUVA: the capital and largest city of Fiji (on Viti Levu island)
SWAB: 1. wash with a swab or a mop. 2. cleaning implement consisting of absorbent material fastened to a handle; for cleaning floors. 
SWAD: a bunch
SWAG: 1. valuable goods. 2. sway heavily or unsteadily. 
SWAGE: form metals with a swage
SWAY: controlling influence
SWALE: a low area (especially a marshy area between ridges)
SWAMI: a Hindu religious teacher; used as a title of respect
SWAMP: 1. drench or submerge or be drenched or submerged. 2. a situation fraught with difficulties and imponderables. 
SWAN: 1. stately heavy-bodied aquatic bird with very long neck and usually white plumage as adult. 2. sweep majestically. 
SWANK: imposingly fashionable and elegant
SWAP: move (a piece of a program) into memory, in computer science
SWARM: a group of many things in the air or on the ground
SWASH: make violent, noisy movements
SWAT: hit swiftly with a violent blow
SWATCH: a sample piece of cloth
SWATH: 1. the space created by the swing of a scythe or the cut of a mowing machine. 2. a path or strip (as cut by one course of mowing). 
SWATHE: an enveloping bandage
SWAZI: 1. of or relating to or characteristic of Swaziland or its people or their language. 2. a Bantu language closely related to Zulu. 
SWEAR: 1. promise solemnly; take an oath. 2. make a deposition; declare under oath. 
SWEAT: 1. condensation of moisture on a cold surface. 2. excrete perspiration through the pores in the skin. 
SWEDE: a native or inhabitant of Sweden
SWEDEN: a Scandinavian kingdom in the eastern part of the Scandinavian Peninsula
SWEEP: 1. a wide scope. 2. a long oar used in an open boat. 3. clean by sweeping. 4. move with sweeping, effortless, gliding motions. 5. sweep with a broom or as if with a broom. 6. win an overwhelming victory in or on. 7. cover the entire range of. 
SWEET: 1. having or denoting the characteristic taste of sugar. 2. a food rich in sugar. 3. pleasing to the senses. 4. (used of wines) having a high residual sugar content. 
SWELL: 1. increase in size, magnitude, number, or intensity. 2. become filled with pride, arrogance, or anger. 3. expand abnormally. 4. cause to become swollen. 
SWEPT: possessing sweep
SWERVE: turn sharply; change direction abruptly
SWIFT: 1. United States meat-packer who began the use of refrigerated railroad cars (1839-1903). 2. an English satirist born in Ireland (1667-1745). 3. a small bird that resembles a swallow and is noted for its rapid flight. 
SWILL: drink large quantities of (liquid, especially alcoholic drink)
SWIM: 1. travel through water. 2. be dizzy or giddy. 3. be covered with or submerged in a liquid. 4. move as if gliding through water. 
SWINE: stout-bodied short-legged omnivorous animals
SWING: 1. move in a curve or arc, usually with the intent of hitting. 2. move or walk in a swinging or swaying manner. 3. change direction with a swinging motion; turn. 4. influence decisively. 5. make a big sweeping gesture or movement. 6. live in a lively, modern, and relaxed style. 7. hit or aim at with a sweeping arm movement. 8. alternate dramatically between high and low values. 9. have a certain musical rhythm. 10. be a social swinger; socialize a lot. 11. play with a subtle and intuitively felt sense of rhythm. 12. engage freely in promiscuous sex, often with the husband or wife of one's friends. 
SWIPE: strike with a swiping motion
SWISH: a brushing or rustling sound
SWISHY: resembling a sustained `sh' or soft whistle
SWISS: of or relating to Switzerland or its people or culture
SWITCH: 1. control consisting of a mechanical or electrical or electronic device for making or breaking or changing the connections in a circuit. 2. lay aside, abandon, or leave for another. 3. make a shift in or exchange of; then we switched". 4. a flexible implement used as an instrument of punishment. 5. flog with or as if with a flexible rod. 6. the act of changing one thing or position for another. 
SWIVEL: a coupling (as in a chain) that has one end that turns on a headed pin
SWIVET: a panic or extreme discomposure
SWIZ: British slang for a swindle
SWOOP: 1. (music) rapid sliding up or down the musical scale. 2. move with a sweep, or in a swooping arc. 3. seize or catch with a swooping motion. 
SWOOSH: the noise produced by the sudden rush of a fluid (a gas or liquid)
SWORD: a cutting or thrusting weapon that has a long metal blade and a hilt with a hand guard
SWORN: bound by or stated on oath
SWOT: an insignificant student who is ridiculed as being affected or boringly studious
TAB: a short strip of material attached to or projecting from something in order to facilitate opening or identifying or handling it
TABARD: a short sleeveless outer tunic emblazoned with a coat of arms; worn by a knight over his armor or by a herald
TABBY: 1. a cat with a grey or tawny coat mottled with black. 2. female cat. 
TABES: wasting of the body during a chronic disease
TABI: a sock with a separation for the big toe; worn with thong sandals by the Japanese
TABLE: 1. a set of data arranged in rows and columns. 2. arrange or enter in tabular form. 3. a piece of furniture with tableware for a meal laid out on it. 4. a company of people assembled at a table for a meal or game. 
TABLET: 1. a slab of stone or wood suitable for bearing an inscription. 2. a small flat compressed cake of some substance. 
TABOO: 1. declare as sacred and forbidden. 2. forbidden to profane use especially in South Pacific islands. 
TABOR: a small drum with one head of soft calfskin
TABRIZ: an ancient city in northwestern Iran; known for hot springs
TACCA: genus of tropical plants with creeping rootstocks and small umbellate flowers
TACK: 1. fasten with tacks. 2. turn into the wind. 3. (nautical) the act of changing tack. 4. sailing a zigzag course. 
TACKER: a worker who fastens things by tacking them (as with tacks or by spotwelding)
TACKY: (of a glutinous liquid such as paint) not completely dried and slightly sticky to the touch
TACKLE: 1. the person who plays that position on a football team. 2. (American football) a position on the line of scrimmage. 3. (American football) grasping an opposing player with the intention of stopping by throwing to the ground. 4. seize and throw down an opponent player, who usually carries the ball. 
TACO: a tortilla rolled cupped around a filling
TACOMA: a city in west central Washington on an arm of Puget Sound to the south of Seattle
TACT: consideration in dealing with others and avoiding giving offense
TACTIC: a plan for attaining a particular goal
TAD: a slight amount or degree of difference
TAEGU: a city in southeastern South Korea
TAEL: a unit of weight used in east Asia approximately equal to 1.3 ounces
TAENIA: 1. a narrow headband or strip of ribbon worn as a headband. 2. tapeworms parasitic in humans which uses the pig as its intermediate host. 
TAFFY: chewy candy of sugar or syrup boiled until thick and pulled until glossy
TAG: 1. attach a tag or label to. 2. touch a player while he is holding the ball. 3. a game in which one child chases the others; the one who is caught becomes the next chaser. 4. supply (blank verse or prose) with rhymes. 5. provide with a name or nickname. 
TAGGER: 1. someone who assigns labels to the grammatical constituents of textual matter. 2. someone who appends or joins one thing to another. 3. a computer program that attaches labels to the grammatical constituents of textual matter. 
TAGORE: Indian writer and philosopher whose poetry (based on traditional Hindu themes) pioneered the use of colloquial Bengali (1861-1941)
TAGUAN: East Indian flying squirrel
TAGUS: a European river; flows into the North Atlantic
TAHINI: a thick Middle Eastern paste made from ground sesame seeds
TAHITI: an island in the south Pacific; the most important island in French Polynesia; made famous by Robert Louis Stevenson and Paul Gauguin
TAI: the most widespread and best known of the Kadai family of languages
TAY: a branch of the Tai languages
TAIF: a city in western Saudi Arabia to the east of Mecca
TAIL: 1. the posterior part of the body of a vertebrate especially when elongated and extending beyond the trunk or main part of the body. 2. remove the stalk of fruits or berries. 3. a spy employed to follow someone and report their movements. 4. (usually plural) the reverse side of a coin that does not bear the representation of a person's head. 5. the rear part of an aircraft. 
TAILED: having a tail of a specified kind; often used in combination
TAILOR: adjust to a specific need or market
TAYLOR: 1. United States composer and music critic (1885-1966). 2. United States film actress (born in England) who was a childhood star; as an adult she often co-starred with Richard Burton (born in 1932). 3. 12th President of the United States; died in office (1784-1850). 
TAIPAN: large highly venomous snake of northeastern Australia
TAIPEI: the capital of Nationalist China; located in northern Taiwan
TAYRA: long-tailed arboreal mustelid of Central America and South America
TAIWAN: 1. a government on the island of Taiwan established in 1949 by Chiang Kai-shek after the conquest of mainland China by the Communists led by Mao Zedong. 2. an island in southeastern Asia 100 miles off the coast of mainland China in the South China Sea. 
TAJIK: 1. a native or inhabitant of Tajikistan and neighboring areas of Uzbekistan and Afghanistan and China. 2. an ethnic group (mostly Moslem) living in Tajikistan and neighboring areas of Uzbekistan and Afghanistan and China. 
TAJIKI: the Iranian language of the Tajik that is closely related to Farsi; spoken in Iran and Tajikistan
TAKA: the basic unit of money in Bangladesh; equal to 100 paisa
TAKE: 1. require (time or space). 2. carry out. 3. get into one's hands, take physically. 4. interpret something in a certain way; convey a particular meaning or impression. 5. take into one's possession. 6. travel or go by means of a certain kind of transportation, or a certain route. 7. experience or feel or submit to. 8. accept or undergo, often unwillingly. 9. make use of or accept for some purpose. 10. take by force. 11. ascertain or determine by measuring, computing or take a reading from a dial. 12. head into a specified direction. 13. be seized or affected in a specified way. 14. buy, select. 15. to get into a position of having, e.g., safety, comfort. 16. have sex with; archaic use. 17. develop a habit. 18. obtain by winning. 
TAKEN: be affected with an indisposition
TAKER: 1. one who accepts an offer. 2. one who takes a bet or wager. 
TAKIN: large heavily built goat antelope of eastern Himalayan area
TALA: the basic unit of money in Western Samoa
TALBOT: English inventor and pioneer in photography who published the first book illustrated with photographs (1800-1877)
TALC: apply talcum powder to (one's body)
TALCUM: a toilet powder made of purified talc and usually scented; absorbs excess moisture
TALENT: a person who possesses unusual innate ability in some field or activity
TALK: 1. exchange thoughts; talk with. 2. express in speech. 3. the act of giving a talk to an audience. 4. idle gossip or rumor. 
TALL: 1. great in vertical dimension; high in stature. 2. impressively difficult. 
TALLY: keep score, as in games
TALLIS: English organist and composer of church and secular music; was granted a monopoly in music printing with William Byrd (1505-1585)
TALLOW: obtained from suet and used in making soap, candles and lubricants
TALMUD: the collection of ancient rabbinic writings on Jewish law and tradition (the Mishna and the Gemara) that constitute the basis of religious authority in Orthodox Judaism
TALON: a sharp hooked claw especially on a bird of prey
TALUS: a sloping mass of loose rocks at the base of a cliff
TAM: a woolen cap of Scottish origin
TAMALE: 1. a city in northern Ghana. 2. corn and cornmeal dough stuffed with a meat mixture then wrapped in corn husks and steamed. 
TAME: 1. flat and uninspiring. 2. very restrained or quiet. 3. brought from wildness into a domesticated state. 
TAMED: brought from wildness
TAMELY: in a tame manner
TAMER: an animal trainer who tames wild animals
TAMIAS: chipmunks of eastern North America
TAMIL: 1. of or relating to a speaker of the Tamil language or the language itself. 2. the Dravidian language spoken since prehistoric times by the Tamil in southern India and Sri Lanka. 
TAMMY: plain-woven (often glazed) fabric of wool or wool and cotton used especially formerly for linings and garments and curtains
TAMMUZ: the tenth month of the civil year; the fourth month of the ecclesiastic year (in June and July)
TAMP: a tool for tamping (e.g., for tamping tobacco into a pipe bowl or a charge into a drill hole etc.)
TAMPA: a resort city in western Florida; located on Tampa Bay on the Gulf of Mexico
TAMPER: play around with or alter or falsify, usually secretively or dishonestly
TAMPON: plug with a tampon
TAMUS: a genus of tuberous vines of the family Dioscoreaceae; has twining stems and heart-shaped leaves and axillary racemes
TAN: 1. of a light yellowish-brown color. 2. get a tan, from wind or sun. 
TANDEM: one behind the other
TANG: 1. the imperial dynasty of China from 618 to 907. 2. any of various coarse seaweeds. 
TANGA: 1. 100 tanga equal 1 Tajikistani ruble. 2. a port city in northeastern Tanzania on the Indian Ocean. 
TANGLE: 1. a twisted and tangled mass that is highly interwoven. 2. something jumbled or confused. 
TANGO: 1. dance a tango. 2. music written in duple time for dancing the tango. 
TANK: 1. store in a tank by causing (something) to flow into it. 2. consume excessive amounts of alcohol. 3. treat in a tank. 
TANKA: 1. a form of Japanese poetry; the 1st and 3rd lines have five syllables and the 2nd, 4th, and 5th have seven syllables. 2. a Tibetan religious painting on fabric. 
TANKER: a soldier who drives a tank
TANNED: converted to leather by a tanning agent
TANNER: a craftsman who tans skins and hides
TANNIC: derived from tannin
TANNIN: any of various complex phenolic substances of plant origin; used in tanning and in medicine
TANOAN: a family of North American Indian language spoken in southwestern United States
TANSY: common perennial aromatic herb native to Eurasia having buttonlike yellow flower heads and bitter-tasting pinnate leaves sometimes used medicinally
TANTRA: 1. any of a fairly recent class of Hindu or Buddhist religious literature concerned with ritual acts of body and speech and mind. 2. doctrine of enlightenment as the realization of the oneness of one's self and the visible world; combines elements of Hinduism and paganism including magical and mystical elements like mantras and mudras and erotic rites; especially influential in Tibet. 
TAO: the ultimate principle of the universe
TAOISM: 1. a Chinese sect claiming to follow the teaching of Lao-tzu but incorporating pantheism and sorcery in addition to Taoism. 2. religion adhering to the teaching of Lao-tzu. 3. popular Chinese philosophical system based in teachings of Lao-tzu but characterized by a pantheism of many gods and the practices of alchemy and divination and magic. 4. philosophical system developed by Lao-tzu and Chuang-tzu advocating a simple honest life and noninterference with the course of natural events. 
TAOIST: 1. of or relating to the popular Chinese religious system based on the teachings of Lao-tzu but including a pantheon of gods along with divination and magic. 2. of or relating to the philosophical system developed by Lao-tzu and Chuang-tzu advocating a simple honest life. 
TAOS: 1. a member of the Pueblo people living in northern New Mexico. 2. an artist colony in northern New Mexico. 
TAP: 1. a small metal plate that attaches to the toe or heel of a shoe (as in tap dancing). 2. a tool for cutting female (internal) screw threads. 3. furnish with a tap or spout, so as to be able to draw liquid from it. 4. walk with a tapping sound. 5. cut a female screw thread with a tap. 6. draw from or dip into to get something. 7. strike lightly. 8. make light, repeated taps on a surface. 9. draw (liquor) from a tap. 10. pierce in order to draw a liquid from. 
TAPA: 1. the thin fibrous bark of the paper mulberry and Pipturus albidus. 2. a paperlike cloth made in the South Pacific by pounding tapa bark. 
TAPE: 1. fasten or attach with tape. 2. a recording made on magnetic tape. 3. the finishing line for a foot race. 4. measuring instrument consisting of a narrow strip (cloth or metal) marked in inches or centimeters and used for measuring lengths. 
TAPED: 1. secured or held in place by tape. 2. recorded on tape. 
TAPER: 1. diminish gradually. 2. the property possessed by a shape that narrows toward a point (as a wedge or cone). 
TAPIR: large inoffensive chiefly nocturnal ungulate of tropical America and southeast Asia having a heavy body and fleshy snout
TAPPED: in a condition for letting out liquid drawn out as by piercing or drawing a plug
TAPPER: 1. a person who strikes a surface lightly and usually repeatedly. 2. a worker who uses a tap to cut screw threads. 3. someone who wiretaps a telephone or telegraph wire. 
TAPPET: a lever that is moved in order to tap something else
TAPS: (military) signal to turn the lights out
TAR: coat with tar
TARA: a village in eastern Ireland (northwest of Dublin); seat of Irish kings until 6th century
TARAWA: 1. national capital of Kiribati. 2. battles in World War II in the Pacific (November 1943); United States Marines took the islands from the Japanese after bitter fighting. 
TARE: 1. an adjustment made for the weight of the packaging in order to determine the net weight of the goods. 2. any of several weedy vetches grown for forage. 3. the weight of a motor vehicle, railroad car, or aircraft without its fuel or cargo. 4. (chemical analysis) a counterweight used in chemical analysis; consists of an empty container that counterbalances the weight of the container holding chemicals. 
TARGET: 1. intend (something) to move towards a certain goal. 2. the location of the target that is to be hit. 3. sports equipment consisting of an object set up for a marksman or archer to aim at. 
TARIFF: charge a tariff
TARN: a mountain lake (especially one formed by glaciers)
TARO: 1. edible starchy tuberous root of taro plants. 2. herb of the Pacific islands grown throughout the tropics for its edible root and in temperate areas as an ornamental for its large glossy leaves. 3. tropical starchy tuberous root. 
TARPAN: European wild horse extinct since the early 20th century
TARPON: large silvery game fish of warm Atlantic coastal waters especially off Florida
TARRY: leave slowly and hesitantly
TARSAL: of or relating to or near the tarsus of the foot
TARSUS: the part of the foot of a vertebrate between the metatarsus and the leg; in human beings the bones of the ankle and heel collectively
TART: 1. a small open pie with a fruit filling. 2. a pastry cup with a filling of fruit or custard and no top crust. 
TARTAN: a cloth having a crisscross design
TARTAR: an incrustation that forms on the teeth and gums
TARTLY: in a tart manner
TARTU: a city of southeastern Estonia that was a member of the Hanseatic League
TARZAN: 1. (sometimes used ironically) a man of great strength and agility (after the hero of a series of novels by Edgar Rice Burroughs). 2. a man raised by apes who was the hero of a series of novels by Edgar Rice Burroughs. 
TASK: assign a task to
TASMAN: Dutch navigator who was the first European to discover Tasmania and New Zealand (1603-1659)
TASSEL: adornment consisting of a bunch of cords fastened at one end
TASSET: one of two pieces of armor plate hanging from the fauld to protect the upper thighs
TASSO: Italian poet who wrote an epic poem about the capture of Jerusalem during the First Crusade (1544-1595)
TASTE: 1. have flavor; taste of something. 2. delicate discrimination (especially of aesthetic values). 3. a brief experience of something. 4. distinguish flavors. 5. experience briefly. 6. a kind of sensing; distinguishing substances by means of the taste buds. 7. perceive by the sense of taste. 
TASTER: someone who samples food or drink for its quality
TASTY: pleasing to the sense of taste
TAT: make lacework by knotting or looping
TATAR: 1. a member of the Mongolian people of central Asia who invaded Russia in the 13th century. 2. a member of the Turkic-speaking people living from the Volga to the Ural Mountains (the name has been attributed to many other groups). 3. the Turkic language spoken by the Tatar living from the Volga to the Ural Mountains. 
TATI: French filmmaker (1908-1982)
TATTLE: disclosing information or giving evidence about another
TATTOO: 1. stain (skin) with indelible color. 2. a design on the skin made by tattooing. 3. the practice of making a design on the skin by pricking and staining. 
TAUPE: a greyish brown
TAURUS: 1. (astrology) a person who is born while the sun is in Taurus. 2. a zodiacal constellation in the northern hemisphere near Orion; between Aries and Gemini. 3. the second sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about April 20 to May 20. 
TAUT: 1. pulled or drawn tight. 2. subjected to great tension; stretched tight. 
TAUTEN: 1. become taut or tauter. 2. make taut or tauter. 
TAUTLY: in a taut manner
TAUTOG: large dark-colored food fish of the Atlantic coast of North America
TAVERN: a building with a bar that is licensed to sell alcoholic drinks
TAWNEY: English economist remembered for his studies of the development of capitalism (1880-1962)
TAWNY: of a light brown to brownish orange color; the color of tanned leather
TAWSE: a leather strap for punishing children
TAX: 1. levy a tax on. 2. set or determine the amount of (a payment such as a fine). 3. use to the limit. 4. make a charge against or accuse. 
TAXER: a bureaucrat who levies taxes
TAXI: 1. travel slowly. 2. ride in a taxicab. 
TAXIS: 1. a locomotor response toward or away from an external stimulus by a motile (and usually simple) organism. 2. the surgical procedure of manually restoring a displaced body part. 
TAXUS: yews
TEA: 1. a beverage made by steeping tea leaves in water. 2. a light midafternoon meal of tea and sandwiches or cakes. 3. a tropical evergreen shrub or small tree extensively cultivated in e.g. China and Japan and India; source of tea leaves. 4. a reception or party at which tea is served. 5. dried leaves of the tea shrub; used to make tea. 
TEACH: 1. impart skills or knowledge to. 2. accustom gradually to some action or attitude. 
TEACUP: 1. as much as a teacup will hold. 2. a cup from which tea is drunk. 
TEAK: 1. hard strong durable yellowish-brown wood of teak trees; resistant to insects and to warping; used for furniture and in shipbuilding. 2. tall East Indian timber tree now planted in western Africa and tropical America for its hard durable wood. 
TEAL: any of various small short-necked dabbling river ducks of Europe and America
TEAM: 1. form a team. 2. two or more draft animals that work together to pull something. 
TEAPOT: pot for brewing tea; usually has a spout and handle
TEAR: 1. separate or cause to separate abruptly. 2. the act of tearing. 3. to separate or be separated by force. 4. move quickly and violently. 5. fill with tears or shed tears. 
TEARY: with eyes full of tears
TEASE: 1. annoy persistently. 2. to arouse hope, desire, or curiosity without satisfying them. 3. harass with persistent criticism or carping. 4. tear into pieces. 5. raise the nap of (fabrics). 6. disentangle and raise the fibers of. 7. separate the fibers of. 8. mock or make fun of playfully. 9. ruffle (one's hair) by combing the ends towards the scalp, for a full effect. 
TEASED: feeling mild pleasurable excitement
TEASEL: any of several herbs of the genus Dipsacus native to the Old World having flower heads surrounded by spiny bracts
TEASER: 1. a worker who teases wool. 2. an advertisement that offers something free in order to arouse customers' interest. 3. an attention-getting opening presented at the start of a television show. 4. a device for teasing wool. 
TEBET: the fourth month of the civil year; the tenth month of the ecclesiastical year (in December and January)
TECHIE: a technician who is highly proficient and enthusiastic about some technical field (especially computing)
TED: a tough youth of 1950's and 1960's wearing Edwardian style clothes
TEDDY: plaything consisting of a child's toy bear (usually plush and stuffed with soft materials)
TEE: 1. place on a tee. 2. connect with a tee. 3. a short peg put into the ground to hold a golf ball off the ground. 
TEEM: be teeming, be abuzz
TEENS: 1. the time of life between the ages of 12 and 20. 2. all the numbers that end in -teen. 
TEETER: move unsteadily, with a rocking motion
TEETHE: grow teeth; cut the baby teeth
TEFF: an African grass economically important as a cereal grass (yielding white flour of good quality) as well as for forage and hay
TEFLON: a material used to coat cooking utensils and in industrial applications where sticking is to be avoided
TEG: two-year-old sheep
TEJU: large (to 3 feet) blackish yellow-banded South American lizard; raid henhouses; used as food
TELEX: communicate by telex
TELL: 1. a Swiss patriot who lived in the early 14th century and who was renowned for his skill as an archer; according to legend an Austrian governor compelled him to shoot an apple from his son's head with his crossbow (which he did successfully without mishap). 2. let something be known. 3. narrate or give a detailed account of. 4. discern or comprehend. 5. give evidence. 
TELLER: 1. United States physicist (born in Hungary) who worked on the first atom bomb and the first hydrogen bomb (1908-2003). 2. an official appointed to count the votes (especially in legislative assembly). 3. an employee of a bank who receives and pays out money. 
TELUGU: 1. a member of the people in southeastern India (Andhra Pradesh) who speak the Telugu language. 2. a Dravidian language spoken by the Telugu in southeastern India. 
TEMP: a worker (especially in an office) hired on a temporary basis
TEMPER: 1. harden by reheating and cooling in oil. 2. adjust the pitch (of pianos). 3. make more temperate, acceptable, or suitable by adding something else; moderate. 
TEMPLE: 1. place of worship consisting of an edifice for the worship of a deity. 2. the flat area on either side of the forehead. 3. an edifice devoted to special or exalted purposes. 
TEMPO: 1. (music) the speed at which a composition is to be played. 2. the rate of some repeating event. 
TEMPT: 1. dispose or incline or entice to. 2. give rise to a desire by being attractive or inviting. 3. try to seduce. 4. try presumptuously. 
TEMUCO: a city in central Chile to the south of Concepcion
TEN: being one more than nine
TENANT: 1. occupy as a tenant. 2. a holder of buildings or lands by any kind of title (as ownership or lease). 3. any occupant who dwells in a place. 
TENCH: freshwater dace-like game fish of Europe and western Asia noted for ability to survive outside water
TEND: 1. have a tendency or disposition to do or be something; be inclined. 2. have care of or look after. 3. manage or run. 
TENDER: 1. given to sympathy or gentleness or sentimentality. 2. make tender or more tender as by marinating, pounding, or applying a tenderizer. 3. easy to cut or chew. 4. physically untoughened. 5. young and immature. 6. (of plants) not hardy; easily killed by adverse growing condition. 
TENDON: a cord or band of inelastic tissue connecting a muscle with its bony attachment
TENNER: a United States bill worth 10 dollars
TENNIS: a game played with rackets by two or four players who hit a ball back and forth over a net that divides the court
TENON: a projection at the end of a piece of wood that is shaped to fit into a mortise and form a mortise joint
TENOR: 1. (of a musical instrument) intermediate between alto and baritone or bass. 2. of or close in range to the highest natural adult male voice. 3. an adult male with a tenor voice. 4. a settled or prevailing or habitual course of a person's life. 5. the general meaning or substance of an utterance. 
TENPIN: one of the bottle-shaped pins used in bowling
TENREC: small often spiny insectivorous mammal of Madagascar; resembles a hedgehog
TENSE: 1. in or of a state of physical or nervous tension. 2. pronounced with relatively tense tongue muscles (e.g., the vowel sound in `beat'). 3. taut or rigid; stretched tight. 4. cause to be tense and uneasy or nervous or anxious. 
TENSED: having inflections to indicate tense
TENSOR: 1. a generalization of the concept of a vector. 2. any of several muscles that cause an attached structure to become tense or firm. 
TENT: 1. a portable shelter (usually of canvas stretched over supporting poles and fastened to the ground with ropes and pegs). 2. a web that resembles a tent or carpet. 
TENTER: a framework with hooks used for stretching and drying cloth
TENTH: 1. position ten in a countable series of things. 2. coming next after the ninth and just before the eleventh in position. 
TENURE: 1. give life-time employment to. 2. the right to hold property; part of an ancient hierarchical system of holding lands. 
TEPAL: an undifferentiated part of a perianth that cannot be distinguished as a sepal or a petal (as in lilies and tulips)
TEPEE: a Native American tent; usually of conical shape
TEPIC: a city in west central Mexico
TERA: a three-tone Chadic language
TERCE: the third canonical hour; about 9 a.m.
TEREDO: typical shipworm
TERES: either of two muscles in the shoulder region that move the shoulders and arms
TERESA: Indian nun and missionary in the Roman Catholic Church (born of Albanian parents in what is now Macedonia); dedicated to helping the poor in India (1910-1997)
TERETE: especially of plant parts; cylindrical and tapering
TERM: 1. name formally or designate with a term. 2. a limited period of time. 3. any distinct quantity contained in a polynomial. 4. one of the substantive phrases in a logical proposition. 5. the end of gestation or point at which birth is imminent. 
TERMER: a person who serves a specified term
TERMES: type genus of the Termitidae
TERN: small slender gull having narrow wings and a forked tail
TERRY: 1. English actress (1847-1928). 2. a pile fabric (usually cotton) with uncut loops on both sides; used to make bath towels and bath robes. 
TERROR: 1. a person who inspires fear or dread. 2. a very troublesome child. 3. the use of extreme fear in order to coerce people (especially for political reasons). 
TERTRY: a battle in France in 687 among the descendants of Clovis
TESLA: 1. a unit of magnetic flux density equal to one weber per square meter. 2. United States electrical engineer and inventor (born in Croatia but of Serbian descent) who discovered the principles of alternating currents and developed the first alternating-current induction motor and the Tesla coil and several forms of oscillators (1856-1943). 
TEST: 1. any standardized procedure for measuring sensitivity or memory or intelligence or aptitude or personality etc. 2. show a certain characteristic when tested. 3. achieve a certain score or rating on a test. 4. determine the presence or properties of (a substance). 5. put to the test, as for its quality, or give experimental use to. 6. undergo a test. 
TESTA: protective outer layer of seeds of flowering plants
TESTED: 1. tested and proved useful or correct. 2. tested and proved to be reliable. 
TESTEE: someone who is tested (as by an intelligence test or an academic examination)
TESTER: a flat canopy (especially one over a four-poster bed)
TESTIS: one of the two male reproductive glands that produce spermatozoa and secrete androgens
TETANY: clinical neurological syndrome characterized by muscular twitching and cramps and (when severe) seizures; associated with calcium deficiency (hypoparathyroidism) or vitamin D deficiency or alkalosis
TETHER: tie with a tether
TETON: a member of the large western branch of Sioux people which was made up of several groups that lived on the plains
TETRA: brightly colored tropical freshwater fishes
TETRAO: type genus of the Tetraonidae: capercaillies
TETRYL: a yellow crystalline explosive solid that is used in detonators
TEUTON: 1. someone (especially a German) who speaks a Germanic language. 2. a member of the ancient Germanic people who migrated from Jutland to southern Gaul and were annihilated by the Romans. 
TEXAN: of or relating to or characteristic of Texas or its residents
TEXAS: the second largest state; located in southwestern United States on the Gulf of Mexico
TEXT: 1. the words of something written. 2. a passage from the Bible that is used as the subject of a sermon. 3. the main body of a written work (as distinct from illustrations or footnotes etc.). 
THAI: 1. of or relating to or characteristic of Thailand or its people. 2. of or relating to the languages of the Thai people. 3. of or relating to Thailand. 
THALES: a presocratic Greek philosopher and astronomer (who predicted an eclipse in 585 BC) who was said by Aristotle to be the founder of physical science; he held that all things originated in water (624-546 BC)
THALIA: 1. (Greek mythology) the Muse of comedy and pastoral poetry. 2. (Greek mythology) one of the three Graces. 
THAMES: the longest river in England; flows eastward through London to the North Sea
THANE: 1. a feudal lord or baron. 2. a man ranking above an ordinary freeman and below a noble in Anglo-Saxon England (especially one who gave military service in exchange for land). 
THANK: express gratitude or show appreciation to
THANKS: 1. an acknowledgment of appreciation. 2. with the help of or owing to. 
THATCH: 1. cover with thatch. 2. plant stalks used as roofing material. 3. a house roof made with a plant material (as straw). 
THAW: 1. the process whereby heat changes something from a solid to a liquid. 2. warm weather following a freeze; snow and ice melt. 3. a relaxation or slackening of tensions or reserve; becoming less hostile. 
THAWED: 1. no longer frozen solid. 2. no longer frozen. 
THEA: (Greek mythology) the Titaness who was mother of Helios and Selene and Eos in ancient mythology
THEBAN: 1. of or relating to the Egyptian city of Thebes or its people or culture. 2. of or relating to the Greek city of Thebes or its people or culture. 
THEBE: 100 thebe equal 1 pula in Botswana
THEBES: 1. an ancient Egyptian city on the Nile River that flourished from the 22nd century BC to the 18th century BC; today the archeological remains include many splendid temples and tombs. 2. an ancient Greek city in Boeotia destroyed by Alexander the Great in 336 BC. 
THECA: 1. a case or sheath especially a pollen sac or moss capsule. 2. outer sheath of the pupa of certain insects. 
THEISM: the doctrine or belief in the existence of a God or gods
THEIST: of or relating to theism
THEME: 1. a unifying idea that is a recurrent element in literary or artistic work. 2. (music) melodic subject of a musical composition. 3. provide with a particular theme or motive. 
THEN: 1. subsequently or soon afterward (often used as sentence connectors). 2. in that case or as a consequence. 3. at that time. 
THENAL: of or relating to the palm of the hand or to the area at the base of the thumb
THENAR: the fleshy area of the palm at the base of the thumb
THENCE: 1. from that place or from there. 2. from that circumstance or source. 
THEORY: 1. a well-substantiated explanation of some aspect of the natural world; an organized system of accepted knowledge that applies in a variety of circumstances to explain a specific set of phenomena. 2. a belief that can guide behavior. 
THERE: 1. in or at that place. 2. in that matter. 3. to or toward that place; away from the speaker. 
THERM: a unit of heat equal to 100,000 British thermal units
THESIS: an unproved statement put forward as a premise in an argument
THETIS: (Greek mythology) one of the 50 Nereids; mother of Achilles by Peleus
THICK: 1. not thin; of a specific thickness or of relatively great extent from one surface to the opposite usually in the smallest of the three solid dimensions. 2. in quick succession. 3. relatively dense in consistency. 4. (of darkness) very intense. 5. abounding; having a lot of. 
THIEF: a criminal who takes property belonging to someone else with the intention of keeping it or selling it
THIGH: the part of the leg between the hip and the knee
THILL: one of two shafts extending from the body of a cart or carriage on either side of the animal that pulls it
THYME: 1. any of various mints of the genus Thymus. 2. leaves can be used as seasoning for almost any meat and stews and stuffings and vegetables. 
THYMOL: a colorless crystalline solid used in perfume or preserving biological specimens or in embalming or medically as a fungicide or antiseptic
THYMUS: large genus of Old World mints: thyme
THIN: 1. of relatively small extent from one surface to the opposite or in cross section. 2. lacking excess flesh. 3. relatively thin in consistency or low in density; not viscous. 4. (of sound) lacking resonance or volume. 5. lacking spirit or sincere effort. 
THING: 1. a special situation. 2. an action. 3. a special abstraction. 4. an artifact. 5. an event. 6. a statement regarded as an object. 7. an entity that is not named specifically. 8. any attribute or quality considered as having its own existence. 9. a special objective. 10. a persistent illogical feeling of desire or aversion. 11. a separate and self-contained entity. 
THINGS: any movable possession (especially articles of clothing)
THINK: 1. judge or regard; look upon; judge. 2. expect, believe, or suppose. 3. use or exercise the mind or one's power of reason in order to make inferences, decisions, or arrive at a solution or judgments. 4. imagine or visualize. 5. focus one's attention on a certain state. 6. decide by pondering, reasoning, or reflecting. 7. ponder; reflect on, or reason about. 8. dispose the mind in a certain way. 9. have or formulate in the mind. 10. be capable of conscious thought. 11. bring into a given condition by mental preoccupation. 
THINLY: 1. without force or sincere effort. 2. without viscosity. 3. in a small quantity or extent. 4. in a widely distributed manner. 
THIRD: 1. following the second position in an ordering or series. 2. the musical interval between one note and another three notes away from it. 3. in the third place. 
THYRSE: a dense flower cluster (as of the lilac or horse chestnut) in which the main axis is racemose and the branches are cymose
THIRST: feel the need to drink
THIRTY: being ten more than twenty
THO: a branch of the Tai languages
THONG: 1. underpants resembling a G-string; worn by women especially under very tight pants. 2. a thin strip of leather; often used to lash things together. 
THOR: (Norse mythology) god of thunder and rain and farming; pictured as wielding a hammer emblematic of the thunderbolt; identified with Teutonic Donar
THORAX: 1. the middle region of the body of an arthropod between the head and the abdomen. 2. the part of the human torso between the neck and the diaphragm or the corresponding part in other vertebrates. 3. part of an insect's body that bears the wings and legs. 
THORN: a Germanic character of runic origin
THORNY: bristling with perplexities
THOTH: Egyptian Moon deity with the head of an ibis; god of wisdom and learning and the arts; scribe of the gods
THOUGH: (postpositive) however
THRACE: an ancient country and wine producing region in the east of the Balkan Peninsula to the north of the Aegean Sea; colonized by ancient Greeks; later a Roman province; now divided between Bulgaria and Greece and Turkey
THRALL: someone held in bondage
THRASH: 1. give a thrashing to; beat hard. 2. beat so fast that (the heart's) output starts dropping until (it) does not manage to pump out blood at all. 3. move data into and out of core rather than performing useful computation. 4. beat the seeds out of a grain. 
THREAD: 1. a fine cord of twisted fibers (of cotton or silk or wool or nylon etc.) used in sewing and weaving. 2. pass a thread through. 3. remove facial hair by tying a fine string around it and pulling at the string. 4. pass through or into. 
THREAT: 1. a warning that something unpleasant is imminent. 2. declaration of an intention or a determination to inflict harm on another. 
THREE: being one more than two
THRICE: three times
THRIFT: any of numerous sun-loving low-growing evergreens of the genus Armeria having round heads of pink or white flowers
THRILL: 1. something that causes you to experience a sudden intense feeling or sensation. 2. cause to be thrilled by some perceptual input. 3. feel sudden intense sensation or emotion. 
THRIPS: any of various small to minute sucking insects with narrow feathery wings if any; they feed on plant sap and many are destructive
THRIVE: make steady progress; be at the high point in one's career or reach a high point in historical significance or importance
THROAT: 1. the passage to the stomach and lungs; in the front part of the neck below the chin and above the collarbone. 2. an opening in the vamp of a shoe at the instep. 3. a passage resembling a throat in shape or function; . 4. the part of an animal's body that corresponds to a person's throat. 
THROB: 1. pulsate or pound with abnormal force. 2. an instance of rapid strong pulsation (of the heart). 
THROE: 1. severe spasm of pain. 2. hard or painful trouble or struggle. 
THROES: violent pangs of suffering
THRONE: 1. sit on the throne as a ruler. 2. the position and power of an exalted person (a sovereign or bishop) who is entitled to sit in a chair of state on ceremonial occasions. 
THRONG: press tightly together or cram
THROW: 1. propel through the air. 2. move violently, energetically, or carelessly. 3. the maximum movement available to a pivoted or reciprocating piece by a cam. 4. place or put with great energy. 5. casting an object in order to determine an outcome randomly. 6. cause to go on or to be engaged or set in operation. 7. to put into a state or activity hastily, suddenly, or carelessly. 8. make on a potter's wheel. 9. cause to fall off. 10. throw (a die) out onto a flat surface. 
THROWN: 1. caused to fall to the ground. 2. twisted together; as of filaments spun into a thread. 
THRUM: a thrumming sound
THRUSH: 1. candidiasis of the oral cavity; seen mostly in infants or debilitated adults. 2. a woman who sings popular songs. 3. songbirds characteristically having brownish upper plumage with a spotted breast. 
THRUST: 1. verbal criticism. 2. push forcefully. 3. press or force. 4. force (molten rock) into pre-existing rock. 5. push upward. 
THUD: 1. make a dull sound. 2. strike with a dull sound. 
THUJA: red cedar
THULE: 1. a town in northwestern Greenland; during World War II a United States naval base was built there. 2. the geographical region believed by ancient geographers to be the northernmost land in the inhabited world. 
THUMB: 1. the thick short innermost digit of the forelimb. 2. the part of a glove that provides a covering for the thumb. 
THUMP: 1. a heavy dull sound (as made by impact of heavy objects). 2. a heavy blow with the hand. 3. hit hard with the hand, fist, or some heavy instrument. 
THUNK: a dull hollow sound
THUS: in the way indicated; (`thusly' is a nonstandard variant)
THWACK: a hard blow with a flat object
THWART: hinder or prevent (the efforts, plans, or desires) of
TIAMAT: (Akkadian) mother of the gods and consort of Apsu
TIARA: a jeweled headdress worn by women on formal occasions
TIBER: a river of central Italy; flows through Rome to the Tyrrhenian Sea
TIBET: an autonomous region of the Peoples Republic of China; located in the Himalayas
TIBIA: the inner and thicker of the two bones of the human leg between the knee and ankle
TIBIAL: relating to or located near a tibia
TIC: a local and habitual twitching especially in the face
TICINO: an Italian-speaking region of southern Switzerland
TICK: 1. a metallic tapping sound. 2. make a sound like a clock or a timer. 3. a light mattress. 4. sew. 
TICKER: a character printer that automatically prints stock quotations on ticker tape
TICKET: 1. issue a ticket or a fine to as a penalty. 2. a summons issued to an offender (especially to someone who violates a traffic regulation). 3. the appropriate or desirable thing. 4. provide with a ticket for passage or admission. 
TICKLE: 1. touch (a body part) lightly so as to excite the surface nerves and cause uneasiness, laughter, or spasmodic movements. 2. the act of tickling. 3. touch or stroke lightly. 
TIDAL: of or relating to or caused by tides
TIDE: 1. rise or move forward. 2. cause to float with the tide. 3. be carried with the tide. 
TIDY: marked by order and cleanliness in appearance or habits
TIDILY: in a tidy manner
TIE: 1. limit or restrict to. 2. a horizontal beam used to prevent two other structural members from spreading apart or separating. 3. (music) a slur over two notes of the same pitch; indicates that the note is to be sustained for their combined time value. 4. make by tying pieces together. 5. unite musical notes by a tie. 6. fasten or secure with a rope, string, or cord. 7. finish a game with an equal number of points, goals, etc.. 8. form a knot or bow in. 
TIED: 1. bound together by or as if by a strong rope; especially as by a bond of affection. 2. fastened with strings or cords. 3. of the score in a contest. 
TIE-ON: fastened by tying on
TIER: 1. any one of two or more competitors who tie one another. 2. a worker who ties something. 3. something that is used for tying. 4. one of two or more layers one atop another. 
TIERED: having or arranged in tiers
TIGER: 1. a fierce or audacious person. 2. large feline of forests in most of Asia having a tawny coat with black stripes; endangered. 
TIGHT: 1. closely constrained or constricted or constricting. 2. set so close together as to be invulnerable to penetration. 3. affected by scarcity and expensive to borrow. 4. of such close construction as to be impermeable. 5. securely or solidly fixed in place; rigid. 6. packed closely together. 
TIGHTS: skintight knit hose covering the body from the waist to the feet worn by acrobats and dancers and as stockings by women and girls
TIGLON: offspring of a male tiger and a female lion
TIGRIS: an Asian river; a tributary of the Euphrates River
TYING: the act of tying or binding things together
TYKE: a native of Yorkshire
TILDE: a diacritical mark (~) placed over the letter n in Spanish to indicate a palatal nasal sound or over a vowel in Portuguese to indicate nasalization
TILE: 1. cover with tiles. 2. a thin flat slab of fired clay used for roofing. 3. game equipment consisting of a flat thin piece marked with characters and used in board games like Mah-Jong, Scrabble, etc.. 
TILED: covered or furnished with tiles
TILER: a worker who lays tile
TILIA: deciduous trees with smooth usually silver-grey bark of North America and Europe and Asia: lime trees; lindens; basswood
TILING: the application of tiles to cover a surface
TILL: work land as by ploughing, harrowing, and manuring, in order to make it ready for cultivation
TILLED: turned or stirred by plowing or harrowing or hoeing
TILLER: 1. a shoot that sprouts from the base of a grass. 2. someone who tills land (prepares the soil for the planting of crops). 3. lever used to turn the rudder on a boat. 
TILT: 1. a slight but noticeable partiality. 2. charge with a tilt. 
TILTER: 1. someone who engages in a tilt or joust. 2. a device for emptying a cask by tilting it without disturbing the dregs. 
TILTH: the state of aggregation of soil and its condition for supporting plant growth
TIMBER: 1. a beam made of wood. 2. a post made of wood. 
TIMBRE: (music) the distinctive property of a complex sound (a voice or noise or musical sound)
TIME: 1. an instance or single occasion for some event. 2. assign a time for an activity or event. 3. set the speed, duration, or execution of. 4. regulate or set the time of. 5. adjust so that a force is applied and an action occurs at the desired time. 6. a person's experience on a particular occasion. 
TIMED: regularly spaced in time
TIMELY: 1. before a time limit expires. 2. done or happening at the appropriate or proper time. 
TIMER: 1. a timepiece that measures a time interval and signals its end. 2. a regulator that activates or deactivates a mechanism at set times. 
TIMES: a more or less definite period of time now or previously present
TIMID: showing fear and lack of confidence
TIMING: 1. the time when something happens. 2. the regulation of occurrence, pace, or coordination to achieve a desired effect (as in music, theater, athletics, mechanics). 
TIMOR: an island in Indonesia in the Malay Archipelago; the largest and most eastern of the Lesser Sunda Islands
TIN: 1. plate with tin. 2. a vessel (box, can, pan, etc.) made of tinplate and used mainly in baking. 3. prepare (a metal) for soldering or brazing by applying a thin layer of solder to the surface. 
TINE: prong on a fork or pitchfork or antler
TYNE: a river in northern England that flows east to the North Sea
TINEA: 1. infections of the skin or nails caused by fungi and appearing as itching circular patches. 2. type genus of the Tineidae: clothes moths. 
TINEID: small yellowish moths whose larvae feed on wool or fur
TING: 1. cause to make a ting. 2. make a light, metallic sound; go `ting'. 
TINGE: affect as in thought or feeling
TINGLE: cause a stinging or tingling sensation
TINKER: 1. a person who enjoys fixing and experimenting with machines and their parts. 2. work as a tinker or tinkerer. 3. try to fix or mend. 
TINKLE: make or emit a high sound
TINNY: 1. of or containing tin. 2. thin and metallic in sound; lacking resonance. 
TINPOT: inferior (especially of a country's leadership)
TINSEL: 1. impart a cheap brightness to. 2. adorn with tinsel. 3. interweave with tinsel. 
TINT: color lightly
TINTER: a hairdresser who tints hair
TIP: 1. cause to tilt. 2. give a tip or gratuity to in return for a service, beyond the compensation agreed on. 3. mark with a tip. 4. remove the tip from. 
TYPE: 1. write by means of a keyboard with types. 2. (biology) the taxonomic group whose characteristics are used to define the next higher taxon. 3. printed characters. 4. all of the tokens of the same symbol. 5. a small metal block bearing a raised character on one end; produces a printed character when inked and pressed on paper. 6. identify as belonging to a certain type. 
TYPHA: reed maces; cattails
TYPHON: (Greek mythology) a monster with a hundred heads who breathed out flames; son of Typhoeus and father of Cerberus and the Chimera and the Sphinx
TYPHUS: rickettsial disease transmitted by body lice and characterized by skin rash and high fever
TYPIFY: 1. embody the essential characteristics of or be a typical example of. 2. express indirectly by an image, form, or model; be a symbol. 
TYPING: writing done with a typewriter
TYPIST: someone paid to operate a typewriter
TIPPED: having a tip; or having a tip as specified (used in combination)
TIPPER: a person who leaves a tip
TIPPET: a woman's fur shoulder cape with hanging ends; often consisting of the whole fur of a fox or marten
TIPPLE: drink moderately but regularly
TIPSY: unstable and prone to tip as if intoxicated
TIPTOE: on tiptoe or as if on tiptoe
TIPTOP: the extreme top or summit
TIP-UP: constructed so as to tip up or out of the way
TYR: (Norse mythology) god of war and strife and son of Odin; identified with Anglo-Saxon Tiu
TIRADE: a speech of violent denunciation
TIRANA: the capital and largest city of Albania in the center of the country
TYRANT: 1. a cruel and oppressive dictator. 2. in ancient Greece, a ruler who had seized power without legal right to it. 3. any person who exercises power in a cruel way. 
TIRE: 1. lose interest or become bored with something or somebody. 2. exhaust or get tired through overuse or great strain or stress. 
TIRED: depleted of strength or energy
TYROL: a picturesque mountainous province of western Austria and northern Italy
TISANE: infusion of e.g. dried or fresh flowers or leaves
TISHRI: the first month of the civil year; the seventh month of the ecclesiastical year in the Jewish calendar (in September and October)
TISSUE: 1. part of an organism consisting of an aggregate of cells having a similar structure and function. 2. a soft thin (usually translucent) paper. 
TITAN: 1. (Greek mythology) any of the primordial giant gods who ruled the Earth until overthrown by Zeus; the Titans were offspring of Uranus (Heaven) and Gaea (Earth). 2. the largest of the satellites of Saturn; has a hazy nitrogen atmosphere. 
TITER: the concentration of a solution as determined by titration
TITFER: a hat (Cockney rhyming slang: `tit for tat' rhymes with `hat')
TITHE: 1. exact a tithe from. 2. levy a tithe on (produce or a crop). 3. pay one tenth of; pay tithes on, especially to the church. 4. pay a tenth of one's income, especially to the church. 
TITHER: someone who pays tithes
TITI: 1. tree of low-lying coastal areas of southeastern United States having glossy leaves and racemes of fragrant white flowers. 2. small South American monkeys with long beautiful fur and long nonprehensile tail. 
TITIAN: old master of the Venetian school (1490-1576)
TITLE: 1. a heading that names a statute or legislative bill; may give a brief summary of the matters it deals with. 2. the name of a work of art or literary composition etc.. 3. a general or descriptive heading for a section of a written work. 4. an identifying appellation signifying status or function: e.g. `Mr.' or `General'. 5. an established or recognized right. 6. (usually plural) written material introduced into a movie or TV show to give credits or represent dialogue or explain an action. 7. an appellation signifying nobility. 
TITO: Yugoslav statesman who led the resistance to German occupation during World War II and established a communist state after the war (1892-1980)
TYTO: type and only genus of the family Tytonidae
TITTER: a nervous restrained laugh
TITTUP: to walk with a lofty proud gait, often in an attempt to impress others
TITUS: 1. a Greek disciple and helper of Saint Paul. 2. Emperor of Rome; son of Vespasian (39-81). 
TIU: god of war and sky; counterpart of Norse Tyr
TIVOLI: a town twenty miles to the east of Rome (Tibur is the ancient name); a summer resort during the Roman empire; noted for its waterfalls
TOAST: 1. slices of bread that have been toasted. 2. propose a toast to. 
TOBAGO: island in West Indies
TOBY: a drinking mug in the shape of a stout man wearing a three-cornered hat
TOBIT: an Apocryphal book that was a popular novel for several centuries
TOCSIN: 1. the sound of an alarm (usually a bell). 2. a bell used to sound an alarm. 
TOD: alone and on your own
TODA: 1. a member of a pastoral people living in the Nilgiri Hills of southern India. 2. the Dravidian language spoken by the Toda in southern India. 
TODAY: 1. the present time or age. 2. on this day as distinct from yesterday or tomorrow. 
TODD: 1. Scottish chemist noted for his research into the structure of nucleic acids (born in 1907). 2. fictional character in a play by George Pitt; a barber who murdered his customers. 
TODDLE: walk unsteadily
TODEA: a genus of delicate ferns belonging to the family Osmundaceae
TODY: tiny insectivorous West Indian bird having red-and-green plumage and a long straight bill
TODUS: type genus of the Todidae
TOE: 1. walk so that the toes assume an indicated position or direction. 2. drive obliquely. 3. hit (a golf ball) with the toe of the club. 4. drive (a golf ball) with the toe of the club. 5. touch with the toe. 
TOEA: 100 toea equal 1 kina in Papua New Guinea
TOECAP: a protective leather or steel cover for the toe of a boot or shoe, reinforcing or decorating it
TOED: having a toe or toes of a specified kind; often used in combination
TOE-IN: the alignment of the front wheels of a motor vehicle closer together at the front than at the back
TOETOE: used by Maoris for thatching
TOFF: informal term for an upper-class or wealthy person
TOGA: a one-piece cloak worn by men in ancient Rome
TOGGED: dressed especially in smart clothes
TOGGLE: 1. provide with a toggle or toggles. 2. release by a toggle switch. 3. fasten with, or as if with, a toggle. 
TOGO: a republic on the western coast of Africa on the Gulf of Guinea; formerly under French control
TOGS: informal terms for clothing
TOY: 1. manipulate manually or in one's mind or imagination. 2. a device regarded as providing amusement. 
TOILER: one who works strenuously
TOILET: 1. a room or building equipped with one or more toilets. 2. a plumbing fixture for defecation and urination. 3. the act of dressing and preparing yourself. 
TOYON: ornamental evergreen treelike shrub of the Pacific coast of the United States having large white flowers and red berrylike fruits; often placed in genus Photinia
TOYOTA: an industrial city of Japan in southern Honshu
TOJO: Japanese army officer who initiated the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor and who assumed dictatorial control of Japan during World War II; he was subsequently tried and executed as a war criminal (1884-1948)
TOKAY: 1. Hungarian wine made from Tokay grapes. 2. variety of wine grape originally grown in Hungary; the prototype of vinifera grapes. 
TOKE: a puff of a marijuana or hashish cigarette
TOKEN: 1. an individual instance of a type of symbol. 2. something serving as a sign of something else. 3. a metal or plastic disk that can be redeemed or used in designated slot machines. 
TOKYO: the capital and largest city of Japan; the economic and cultural center of Japan
TOLE: enameled or lacquered metalware (usually gilded and elaborately painted); popular in the 18th century
TOLEDO: 1. an industrial city in northwestern Ohio on Lake Erie. 2. a city in central Spain on the Tagus river; famous for steel and swords since the first century. 
TOLL: 1. ring slowly. 2. charge a fee for using. 
TOLLER: a person who rings church bells (as for summoning the congregation)
TOLTEC: a member of the Nahuatl speaking people of central and southern Mexico
TOLU: aromatic yellowish brown balsam from the tolu balsam tree used especially in cough syrups
TOM: 1. (ethnic slur) offensive and derogatory name for a Black man who is abjectly servile and deferential to Whites. 2. male cat. 
TOMATO: 1. mildly acid red or yellow pulpy fruit eaten as a vegetable. 2. native to South America; widely cultivated in many varieties. 
TOMBAC: an alloy of copper and zinc (and sometimes arsenic) used to imitate gold in cheap jewelry and for gilding
TOMBOY: a girl who behaves in a boyish manner
TOME: a (usually) large and scholarly book
TONAL: having tonality; i.e. tones and chords organized in relation to one tone such as a keynote or tonic
TONE: 1. utter monotonously and repetitively and rhythmically. 2. vary the pitch of one's speech. 3. a steady sound without overtones. 4. a musical interval of two semitones. 5. the quality of something (an act or a piece of writing) that reveals the attitudes and presuppositions of the author. 6. change the color or tone of. 7. change to a color image. 8. give a healthy elasticity to. 
TONED: 1. having or characterized or distinguished by tone or a specific tone; often used in combination. 2. having or distinguished by a tone; often used in combination. 
TONER: 1. a solution containing chemicals that can change the color of a photographic print. 2. a black or colored powder used in a printer to develop a xerographic image. 3. a lotion for cleansing the skin and contracting the pores. 
TONGA: 1. a monarchy on a Polynesian archipelago in the South Pacific; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1970. 2. the language of the Tongan people of south central Africa (Zambia and Rhodesia). 
TONGAN: 1. of or relating to the island monarchy of Tonga or its people. 2. the Polynesian language spoken by the Tongan people. 
TONGS: any of various devices for taking hold of objects; usually have two hinged legs with handles above and pointed hooks below
TONGUE: 1. articulate by tonguing, as when playing wind instruments. 2. any long thin projection that is transient. 3. a manner of speaking. 4. the tongue of certain animals used as meat. 5. the flap of material under the laces of a shoe or boot. 6. lick or explore with the tongue. 
TONIC: 1. of or relating to or producing normal tone or tonus in muscles or tissue. 2. used of syllables. 3. relating to or being the keynote of a major or minor scale. 4. employing variations in pitch to distinguish meanings of otherwise similar words. 
TONS: a large number or amount
TONSIL: either of two masses of lymphatic tissue one on each side of the oral pharynx
TOOL: 1. drive. 2. furnish with tools. 3. work with a tool. 
TOONA: formerly included in genus Cedrela
TOOT: a blast of a horn
TOOTH: 1. hard bonelike structures in the jaws of vertebrates; used for biting and chewing or for attack and defense. 2. something resembling the tooth of an animal. 3. toothlike structure in invertebrates found in the mouth or alimentary canal or on a shell. 4. a means of enforcement. 5. one of a number of uniform projections on a gear. 
TOOTHY: having or showing prominent teeth
TOOTLE: play (a musical instrument) casually
TOP: 1. situated at the top or highest position. 2. the highest or uppermost side of anything. 3. the first half of an inning; while the visiting team is at bat. 4. reach or ascend the top of. 5. strike (the top part of a ball in golf, baseball, or pool) giving it a forward spin. 6. cut the top off. 7. covering for a hole (especially a hole in the top of a container). 8. finish up or conclude. 9. be at the top of or constitute the top or highest point. 10. provide with a top or finish the top (of a structure). 
TOPAZ: 1. a yellow quartz. 2. a mineral (fluosilicate of aluminum) that occurs in crystals of various colors and is used as a gemstone. 
TOPEKA: the capital of the state of Kansas; located in eastern Kansas on the Kansas river
TOPHUS: a deposit of urates around a joint or in the external ear; diagnostic of advanced or chronic gout
TOPIC: some situation or event that is thought about
TOPOS: a traditional theme or motif or literary convention
TOPPED: having a top of a specified character
TOPPER: 1. a worker who makes or adds the top to something. 2. a worker who cuts tops off (of trees or vegetables etc.). 3. an exceedingly good witticism that surpasses all that have gone before. 4. a woman's short coat. 
TOPPLE: cause to topple or tumble by pushing
TOQUE: a tall white hat with a pouched crown; worn by chefs
TOR: 1. a prominent rock or pile of rocks on a hill. 2. a high rocky hill. 
TORAH: 1. the whole body of the Jewish sacred writings and tradition including the oral tradition. 2. the first of three divisions of the Hebrew Scriptures comprising the first five books of the Hebrew Bible considered as a unit. 3. (Judaism) the scroll of parchment on which the first five books of the Hebrew Scripture is written; is used in a synagogue during services. 
TORCH: burn maliciously, as by arson
TORERO: a matador or one of the supporting team during a bull fight
TORY: 1. an American who favored the British side during the American Revolution. 2. a member of political party in Great Britain that has been known as the Conservative Party since 1832; was the opposition party to the Whigs. 3. a supporter of traditional political and social institutions against the forces of reform; a political conservative. 
TORN: disrupted by the pull of contrary forces
TOROID: the doughnut-shaped object enclosed by a torus
TORPOR: a state of motor and mental inactivity with a partial suspension of sensibility
TORR: a unit of pressure equal to 0.001316 atmosphere; named after Torricelli
TORRID: 1. emotionally charged and vigorously energetic. 2. extremely hot. 
TORSO: the body excluding the head and neck and limbs
TORT: (law) any wrongdoing for which an action for damages may be brought
TORTE: rich cake usually covered with cream and fruit or nuts; originated in Austria
TORUS: 1. a ring-shaped surface generated by rotating a circle around an axis that does not intersect the circle. 2. commonly the lowest molding at the base of a column. 
TOSK: the dialect of Albanian spoken in southern Albania and in areas of Greece and Italy
TOSS: 1. an abrupt movement. 2. agitate. 
TOSSER: 1. terms of abuse for a masturbator. 2. someone who throws lightly (as with the palm upward). 
TOSSUP: an unpredictable phenomenon
TOT: a small amount (especially of a drink)
TOTAL: 1. add up in number or quantity. 2. determine the sum of. 3. damage beyond the point of repair. 
TOTARA: valuable timber tree of New Zealand yielding hard reddish wood used for furniture and bridges and wharves
TOTEM: 1. a clan or tribe identified by their kinship to a common totemic object. 2. emblem consisting of an object such as an animal or plant; serves as the symbol of a family or clan (especially among American Indians). 
TOTTER: move without being stable, as if threatening to fall
TOUCAN: brilliantly colored arboreal fruit-eating bird of tropical America having a very large thin-walled beak
TOUCH: 1. make physical contact with, come in contact with. 2. perceive via the tactile sense. 3. affect emotionally. 4. a distinguishing style. 5. be in direct physical contact with; make contact. 6. a slight but appreciable amount. 7. cause to be in brief contact with. 8. the act of soliciting money (as a gift or loan). 9. the sensation produced by pressure receptors in the skin. 10. tamper with. 11. the feel of mechanical action. 12. deal with; usually used with a form of negation. 13. comprehend. 
TOUGH: 1. not given to gentleness or sentimentality. 2. physically toughened. 3. resistant to cutting or chewing. 
TOULON: a port city and naval base in southeastern France on the Mediterranean coast
TOUPEE: a small hairpiece to cover partial baldness
TOUR: make a tour of a certain place
TOURS: an industrial city in western France on the Loire River
TOUSLE: disarrange or rumple; dishevel
TOUT: 1. advertize in strongly positive terms. 2. someone who advertises for customers in an especially brazen way. 
TOW: drag behind
TOWEL: wipe with a towel
TOWER: a structure taller than its diameter; can stand alone or be attached to a larger building
TOWHEE: any of numerous long-tailed American finches
TOWN: 1. an urban area with a fixed boundary that is smaller than a city. 2. the people living in a municipality smaller than a city. 3. United States architect who was noted for his design and construction of truss bridges (1784-1844). 
TOWNEE: townsman unacquainted with country life especially a slick and flashy male city dweller
TOWNIE: resident of a college town not affiliated with the college
TOXIC: of or relating to or caused by a toxin or poison
TOXIN: a poisonous substance produced during the metabolism and growth of certain microorganisms and some higher plant and animal species
TRACE: 1. follow, discover, or ascertain the course of development of something. 2. make a mark or lines on a surface. 3. discover traces of. 4. make one's course or travel along a path; travel or pass over, around, or along. 5. to go back over again. 6. copy by following the lines of the original drawing on a transparent sheet placed upon it; make a tracing of. 
TRACER: 1. an investigator who is employed to find missing persons or missing goods. 2. an instrument used to make tracings. 3. (radiology) any radioactive isotope introduced into the body to study metabolism or other biological processes. 4. ammunition whose flight can be observed by a trail of smoke. 
TRACK: 1. a pair of parallel rails providing a runway for wheels. 2. an endless metal belt on which tracked vehicles move over the ground. 3. (computer science) one of the circular magnetic paths on a magnetic disk that serve as a guide for writing and reading data. 4. a groove on a phonograph recording. 5. a bar or pair of parallel bars of rolled steel making the railway along which railroad cars or other vehicles can roll. 6. any road or path affording passage especially a rough one. 7. the act of participating in an athletic competition involving running on a track. 8. carry on the feet and deposit. 9. observe or plot the moving path of something. 10. make tracks upon. 
TRACT: 1. an extended area of land. 2. a system of body parts that together serve some particular purpose. 3. a brief treatise on a subject of interest; published in the form of a booklet. 
TRAD: traditional jazz as revived in the 1950s
TRADE: 1. engage in the trade of. 2. turn in as payment or part payment for a purchase. 3. be traded at a certain price or under certain conditions. 4. exchange or give (something) in exchange for. 
TRADER: someone who purchases and maintains an inventory of goods to be sold
TRAGIC: 1. very sad; especially involving grief or death or destruction. 2. of or relating to or characteristic of tragedy. 
TRAGUS: a small cartilaginous flap in front of the external opening of the ear
TRAY: an open receptacle for holding or displaying or serving articles or food
TRAIL: 1. a track or mark left by something that has passed. 2. a path or track roughly blazed through wild or hilly country. 3. move, proceed, or walk draggingly or slowly. 4. hang down so as to drag along the ground. 5. drag loosely along a surface; allow to sweep the ground. 
TRAIN: 1. create by training and teaching. 2. a series of consequences wrought by an event. 3. piece of cloth forming the long back section of a gown that is drawn along the floor. 4. undergo training or instruction in preparation for a particular role, function, or profession. 5. exercise in order to prepare for an event or competition. 6. cause to grow in a certain way by tying and pruning it. 7. travel by rail or train. 
TRAIT: a distinguishing feature of your personal nature
TRAJAN: Roman Emperor and adoptive son of Nerva; extended the Roman Empire to the east and conducted an extensive program of building (53-117)
TRA-LA: a set of nonsensical syllables used while humming a refrain
TRAM: travel by tram
TRAMP: 1. travel on foot, especially on a walking expedition. 2. a heavy footfall. 3. cross on foot. 
TRANCE: a state of mind in which consciousness is fragile and voluntary action is poor or missing; a state resembling deep sleep
TRAP: 1. place in a confining or embarrassing position. 2. catch in or as if in a trap. 3. hold or catch as if in a trap. 4. to hold fast or prevent from moving. 5. informal terms for the mouth. 6. a light two-wheeled carriage. 
TRAPA: small genus of Eurasian aquatic perennial herbs: water chestnut
TRASH: 1. worthless people. 2. dispose of (something useless or old). 
TRAUMA: an emotional wound or shock often having long-lasting effects
TRAVE: a horizontal beam that extends across something
TRAVEL: 1. change location; move, travel, or proceed, also metaphorically. 2. undertake a journey or trip. 3. make a trip for pleasure. 4. travel upon or across. 5. undergo transportation as in a vehicle. 6. travel from place to place, as for the purpose of finding work, preaching, or acting as a judge. 
TRAWL: 1. fish with trawlers. 2. a conical fishnet dragged through the water at great depths. 
TREAD: 1. tread or stomp heavily or roughly. 2. crush as if by treading on. 3. brace (an archer's bow) by pressing the foot against the center. 4. apply (the tread) to a tire. 5. mate with. 
TREAT: 1. an occurrence that causes special pleasure or delight. 2. interact in a certain way. 3. provide treatment for. 4. provide with a gift or entertainment. 5. engage in negotiations in order to reach an agreement. 6. regard or consider in a specific way. 
TREATY: a written agreement between two states or sovereigns
TREBLE: 1. sing treble. 2. three times as great or many. 
TREE: 1. a tall perennial woody plant having a main trunk and branches forming a distinct elevated crown; includes both gymnosperms and angiosperms. 2. plant with trees. 3. chase an animal up a tree. 4. stretch (a shoe) on a shoetree. 
TREY: one of four playing cards in a deck having three pips
TREK: 1. journey on foot, especially in the mountains. 2. make a long and difficult journey. 
TREMA: an evergreen tree of the family Ulmaceae that grows in tropical America and Africa and Asia
TREMOR: 1. shake with seismic vibrations. 2. a small earthquake. 3. shaking or trembling (usually resulting from weakness or stress or disease). 
TRENCH: 1. a ditch dug as a fortification having a parapet of the excavated earth. 2. fortify by surrounding with trenches. 3. cut or carve deeply into. 4. set, plant, or bury in a trench. 5. cut a trench in, as for drainage. 6. dig a trench or trenches. 
TRENDY: in accord with the latest fad
TRENT: a river in central England that flows generally northeastward to join with the Ouse River and form the Humber
TRENTO: a city in northern Italy (northwest of Venice) on the River Adige; the site of the Council of Trent
TREPAN: 1. cut a hole with a trepan, as in surgery. 2. a drill for cutting circular holes around a center. 
TREWS: tight-fitting trousers; usually of tartan
TRY: 1. make an effort or attempt. 2. give pain or trouble to. 3. test the limits of. 4. melt (fat or lard) in order to separate out impurities. 
TRIAGE: sorting and allocating aid on the basis of need for or likely benefit from medical treatment or food
TRIAL: 1. trying something to find out about it. 2. (law) the determination of a person's innocence or guilt by due process of law. 3. (sports) a preliminary competition to determine qualifications. 4. an annoying or frustrating or catastrophic event. 
TRIBAL: relating to or characteristic of a tribe
TRIBE: 1. a social division of (usually preliterate) people. 2. a federation (as of American Indians). 3. (biology) a taxonomic category between a genus and a subfamily. 
TRICE: 1. raise with a line. 2. hoist up or in and lash or secure with a small rope. 
TRICK: 1. a cunning or deceitful action or device. 2. a period of work or duty. 3. an attempt to get you to do something foolish or imprudent. 4. (card games) in a single round, the sequence of cards played by all the players; the high card is the winner. 
TRICOT: a knitted fabric or one resembling knitting
TRIER: 1. one (as a judge) who examines and settles a case. 2. one who tries. 
TRIFID: divided into three lobes
TRIFLE: a cold pudding made of layers of sponge cake spread with fruit or jelly; may be decorated with nuts, cream, or chocolate
TRIGA: type genus of the Triglidae
TRIGON: a triangular lyre of ancient Greece and Rome
TRYING: hard to endure
TRILBY: singer in a novel by George du Maurier who was under the control of the hypnotist Svengali
TRILL: 1. pronounce with a trill, of the phoneme `r'. 2. the articulation of a consonant (especially the consonant `r') with a rapid flutter of the tongue against the palate or uvula. 
TRIM: 1. a state of arrangement or appearance. 2. attitude of an aircraft in flight when allowed to take its own orientation. 3. balance in flight by regulating the control surfaces. 4. decorate, as with ornaments. 5. be in equilibrium during a flight. 6. decorate (food), as with parsley or other ornamental foods. 7. adjust (sails on a ship) so that the wind is optimally used. 
TRIMER: a polymer (or a molecule of a polymer) consisting of three identical monomers
TRIMLY: in a trim manner
TRINGA: a genus of Scolopacidae
TRIO: 1. a musical composition for three performers. 2. three performers or singers who perform together. 3. a set of three similar things considered as a unit. 4. three people considered as a unit. 
TRIODE: a thermionic vacuum tube having three electrodes; fluctuations of the charge on the grid control the flow from cathode to anode which makes amplification possible
TRIOPS: type genus of the family Triopidae: small crustaceans with a small third median eye
TRIOSE: any monosaccharide sugar containing three atoms of carbon per molecule
TRIP: 1. a journey for some purpose (usually including the return). 2. cause to stumble. 3. put in motion or move to act. 4. a light or nimble tread. 5. an unintentional but embarrassing blunder. 6. get high, stoned, or drugged. 
TRIPE: lining of the stomach of a ruminant (especially a bovine) used as food
TRIPLE: 1. increase threefold. 2. a quantity that is three times as great as another. 3. hit a three-base hit. 
TRIPOD: a three-legged rack used for support
TRIPOS: final honors degree examinations at Cambridge University
TRYST: a date; usually with a member of the opposite sex
TRITON: 1. (Greek mythology) a sea god; son of Poseidon. 2. the largest moon of Neptune. 3. tropical marine gastropods having beautifully colored spiral shells. 
TRIUNE: being three in one; used especially of the Christian Trinity
TRIVET: 1. a three-legged metal stand for supporting a cooking vessel in a hearth. 2. a stand with short feet used under a hot dish on a table. 
TROAT: emit a cry intended to attract other animals; used especially of animals at rutting time
TROGON: forest bird of warm regions of the New World having brilliant lustrous plumage and long tails
TROY: 1. a system of weights used for precious metals and gemstones; based on a 12-ounce pound and an ounce of 480 grains. 2. an ancient city in Asia Minor that was the site of the Trojan War. 
TROIKA: 1. a Russian carriage pulled by three horses abreast. 2. a modern Russian triumvirate. 
TROJAN: 1. of or relating to the ancient city of Troy or its inhabitants. 2. a program that appears desirable but actually contains something harmful. 
TROLL: 1. circulate, move around. 2. sing the parts of (a round) in succession. 3. angle with a hook and line drawn through the water. 4. cause to move round and round. 5. sing loudly and without inhibition. 6. praise or celebrate in song. 7. speak or recite rapidly or in a rolling voice. 
TROOP: 1. a group of soldiers. 2. move or march as if in a crowd. 3. a unit of Girl or Boy Scouts. 4. an orderly crowd. 
TROPE: language used in a figurative or nonliteral sense
TROPHY: 1. an award for success in war or hunting. 2. something given as a token of victory. 
TROPIC: either of two parallels of latitude about 23.5 degrees to the north and south of the equator representing the points farthest north and south at which the sun can shine directly overhead and constituting the boundaries of the Torrid Zone or tropics
TROT: 1. a gait faster than a walk; diagonally opposite legs strike the ground together. 2. run at a moderately swift pace. 3. ride at a trot. 4. cause to trot. 
TROUGH: 1. a narrow depression (as in the earth or between ocean waves or in the ocean bed). 2. a long narrow shallow receptacle. 
TROUT: 1. flesh of any of several primarily freshwater game and food fishes. 2. any of various game and food fishes of cool fresh waters mostly smaller than typical salmons. 
TROWEL: use a trowel on; for light garden work or plaster work
TRUANT: absent without permission
TRUCK: convey (goods etc.) by truck
TRUDGE: a long difficult walk
TRUISM: an obvious truth
TRULY: in accordance with truth or fact or reality
TRUMP: 1. produce a sound as if from a trumpet. 2. (card games) the suit that has been declared to rank above all other suits for the duration of the hand. 3. play a trump. 4. proclaim or announce with or as if with a fanfare. 
TRUNK: 1. the main stem of a tree; usually covered with bark; the bole is usually the part that is commercially useful for lumber. 2. luggage consisting of a large strong case used when traveling or for storage. 
TRUSS: 1. tie the wings and legs of a bird before cooking it. 2. a framework of beams (rafters, posts, struts) forming a rigid structure that supports a roof or bridge or other structure. 3. support structurally. 
TRUST: 1. have confidence or faith in. 2. the trait of believing in the honesty and reliability of others. 3. a consortium of independent organizations formed to limit competition by controlling the production and distribution of a product or service. 4. allow without fear. 5. extend credit to; I won't pay her debts anymore". 
TRUSTY: a convict who is considered trustworthy and granted special privileges
TRUTH: 1. a fact that has been verified. 2. conformity to reality or actuality. 3. a true statement. 4. United States abolitionist and feminist who was freed from slavery and became a leading advocate of the abolition of slavery and for the rights of women (1797-1883). 
TSK: utter `tsk,' `tut,' or `tut-tut,' as in disapproval
TSORIS: (Yiddish) trouble and suffering
TSUGA: hemlock; hemlock fir; hemlock spruce
TSURIS: (Yiddish) aggravating trouble
TSWANA: 1. a member of a Bantu people living chiefly in Botswana and western South Africa. 2. the dialect of Sotho spoken by the Tswana in Botswana. 
TUAREG: 1. a member of a nomadic Berber people of the Sahara. 2. the dialect of Berber spoken by the Tuareg. 
TUB: 1. a large open vessel for holding or storing liquids. 2. the amount that a tub will hold. 
TUBAL: of or relating to occurring in a tube such as e.g. the Fallopian tube or Eustachian tube
TUBE: 1. provide with a tube or insert a tube into. 2. convey in a tube. 3. place or enclose in a tube. 4. ride or float on an inflated tube. 
TUBED: of a tire; having an inner tube
TUBER: 1. a fleshy underground stem or root serving for reproductive and food storage. 2. type genus of the Tuberaceae: fungi whose fruiting bodies are typically truffles. 
TUBULE: a small tube
TUCANA: a large faint constellation in the southern hemisphere containing most of the Small Magellanic Cloud
TUCK: 1. fit snugly into. 2. make a tuck or several folds in. 3. a narrow flattened pleat or fold that is stitched in place. 
TUCKED: having tucked or being tucked
TUCKER: 1. United States anarchist influential before World War I (1854-1939). 2. United States vaudevillian (born in Russia) noted for her flamboyant performances (1884-1966). 3. a sewer who tucks. 4. a detachable yoke of linen or lace worn over the breast of a low-cut dress. 
TUCSON: a city in southeastern Arizona ringed by mountain ranges; long known as a winter and health resort but the population shift from industrial states to the Sunbelt resulted in rapid growth late in the 20th century
TUDOR: 1. of or relating to a style of architecture in England in the 15th century. 2. United States dancer and choreographer (born in England) (1909-1987). 3. a member of the dynasty that ruled England. 
TUFA: a soft porous rock consisting of calcium carbonate deposited from springs rich in lime
TUFF: hard volcanic rock composed of compacted volcanic ash
TUFT: 1. a bunch of hair or feathers or growing grass. 2. a bunch of feathers or hair. 
TUFTED: having or adorned with tufts
TUG: 1. pull hard. 2. strive and make an effort to reach a goal. 3. tow (a vessel) with a tug. 4. move by pulling hard. 5. pull or strain hard at. 6. struggle in opposition. 
TUGELA: a major waterfall in southern Africa; has more than one leap
TUGRIK: the basic unit of money in Mongolia
TUILLE: armor plate that protects the hip and thigh
TULIP: any of numerous perennial bulbous herbs having linear or broadly lanceolate leaves and usually a single showy flower
TULIPA: Eurasian perennial bulbous herbs
TULLE: a fine (often starched) net used for veils or tutus or gowns
TULSA: a major city of northeastern Oklahoma on the Arkansas river; once known as the oil capital of the world and still heavily involved in the oil and gas industries
TULU: 1. a member of a Dravidian people living on the southwestern coast of India. 2. a Dravidian language spoken by the Tulu. 
TUMBLE: 1. fall down, as if collapsing. 2. roll over and over, back and forth. 3. throw together in a confused mass. 4. fall suddenly and sharply. 5. put clothes in a tumbling barrel, where they are whirled about in hot air, usually with the purpose of drying. 6. suffer a sudden downfall, overthrow, or defeat. 7. do gymnastics, roll and turn skillfully. 
TUMEFY: cause to become very swollen
TUMID: of sexual organs; stiff and rigid
TUMOR: an abnormal new mass of tissue that serves no purpose
TUMS: an antacid
TUMULT: 1. a state of commotion and noise and confusion. 2. violent agitation. 
TUN: a large cask especially one holding a volume equivalent to 2 butts or 252 gals
TUNA: 1. tropical American prickly pear of Jamaica. 2. important warm-water fatty fish of the genus Thunnus of the family Scombridae; usually served as steaks. 3. any very large marine food and game fish of the genus Thunnus; related to mackerel; chiefly of warm waters. 4. New Zealand eel. 
TUNDRA: a vast treeless plain in the Arctic regions where the subsoil is permanently frozen
TUNE: 1. adjust for (better) functioning. 2. adjust the pitches of (musical instruments). 3. the adjustment of a radio receiver or other circuit to a required frequency. 
TUNER: someone who tunes pianos
TUNGA: a genus of Siphonaptera
TUNGUS: 1. a member of the Tungus speaking people of Mongolian race who are a nomadic people widely spread over eastern Siberia; related to the Manchu. 2. the Tungusic language of the Evenki in eastern Siberia. 
TUNIC: 1. an enveloping or covering membrane or layer of body tissue. 2. any of a variety of loose fitting cloaks extending to the hips or knees. 
TUNING: (music) calibrating something (an instrument or electronic circuit) to a standard frequency
TUNIS: the capital and principal port of Tunisia
TUNNEL: 1. a passageway through or under something, usually underground (especially one for trains or cars). 2. force a way through. 
TUPAIA: the type genus of the Tupaia: chief genus of tree shrews
TUPELO: 1. pale soft wood of a tupelo tree especially the water gum. 2. any of several gum trees of swampy areas of North America. 3. a town in northeast Mississippi. 
TUPI: 1. a member of the South American Indian people living in Brazil and Paraguay. 2. the language spoken by the Tupi of Brazil and Paraguay. 
TUPIK: tent that is an Eskimo summer dwelling
TURBAN: a traditional Muslim headdress consisting of a long scarf wrapped around the head
TURBOT: 1. flesh of a large European flatfish. 2. a large brownish European flatfish. 
TURDUS: type genus of the Turdidae
TUREEN: large deep serving dish with a cover; for serving soups and stews
TURF: 1. cover (the ground) with a surface layer of grass or grass roots. 2. the territory claimed by a juvenile gang as its own. 3. range of jurisdiction or influence. 
TURGOR: (biology) the normal rigid state of fullness of a cell or blood vessel or capillary resulting from pressure of the contents against the wall or membrane
TURGOT: French economist who in 1774 was put in control of finances by Louis XVI; his proposals for reforms that involved abolishing feudal privileges made him unpopular with the aristocracy and in 1776 he was dismissed (1727-1781)
TURIN: capital city of the Piemonte region of northwestern Italy
TURING: English mathematician who conceived of the Turing machine and broke German codes during World War II (1912-1954)
TURK: a native or inhabitant of Turkey
TURKEY: 1. large gallinaceous bird with fan-shaped tail; widely domesticated for food. 2. a Eurasian republic in Asia Minor and the Balkans; on the collapse of the Ottoman Empire in 1918, the Young Turks, led by Kemal Ataturk, established a republic in 1923. 3. flesh of large domesticated fowl usually roasted. 4. an event that fails badly or is totally ineffectual. 
TURKI: 1. any member of the peoples speaking a Turkic language. 2. a subfamily of Altaic languages. 
TURKIC: of or relating to the people who speak the Turkic language
TURN: 1. the act of changing or reversing the direction of the course. 2. (game) the activity of doing something in an agreed succession. 3. cause to move around or rotate. 4. pass to the other side of. 5. move around an axis or a center. 6. to send or let go. 7. taking a short walk out and back. 8. change orientation or direction, also in the abstract sense. 9. pass into a condition gradually, take on a specific property or attribute; become. 10. let (something) fall or spill from a container. 11. cause to move around a center so as to show another side of. 12. shape by rotating on a lathe or cutting device or a wheel. 13. change color. 14. cause to change or turn into something different; assume new characteristics. 15. accomplish by rotating. 16. get by buying and selling. 17. cause to move along an axis or into a new direction. 18. channel one's attention, interest, thought, or attention toward or away from something. 19. alter the functioning or setting of. 20. direct at someone. 21. become officially one year older. 
TURNED: moved around an axis or center
TURNER: 1. United States slave and insurrectionist who in 1831 led a rebellion of slaves in Virginia; he was captured and executed (1800-1831). 2. United States endocrinologist (1892-1970). 3. English landscape painter whose treatment of light and color influenced the French impressionists (1775-1851). 4. United States historian who stressed the role of the western frontier in American history (1861-1951). 5. a tumbler who is a member of a turnverein. 6. a lathe operator. 7. one of two persons who swing ropes for jumpers to skip over in the game of jump rope. 8. cooking utensil having a flat flexible part and a long handle; used for turning or serving food. 
TURNIP: 1. widely cultivated plant having a large fleshy edible white or yellow root. 2. root of any of several members of the mustard family. 
TURNIX: type genus of the Turnicidae: button quail
TURPIN: English highwayman (1706-1739)
TURRET: a small tower extending above a building
TURTLE: hunt for turtles, especially as an occupation
TUSCAN: 1. of or relating to or characteristic of Tuscany or its people. 2. a dialect of Italian spoken in Tuscany (especially Florence). 
TUSK: remove the tusks of animals
TUSKED: having tusks
TUSKER: any mammal with prominent tusks (especially an elephant or wild boar)
TUSSAH: oriental moth that produces brownish silk
TUTEE: learns from a tutor
TUTELO: 1. a member of the Siouan people of Virginia and North Carolina. 2. the Siouan language spoken by the Tutelo. 
TUTOR: 1. be a tutor to someone; give individual instruction. 2. act as a guardian to someone. 
TUTU: South African prelate and leader of the antiapartheid struggle (born in 1931)
TUVALU: 1. a small island republic on the Tuvalu islands; formerly part of the British colony of Gilbert and Ellice Islands until it withdrew in 1975 and became independent of the United Kingdom in 1978. 2. a group of coral islands in Micronesia to the southwest of Hawaii. 
TWANG: 1. cause to sound with a twang. 2. sound with a twang. 3. twitch or throb with pain. 4. pluck (strings of an instrument). 5. pronounce with a nasal twang. 
TWEAK: pinch or squeeze sharply
TWEED: thick woolen fabric used for clothing; originated in Scotland
TWEEDY: (of country gentry) informal, clannish and outdoorsy
TWEET: make a weak, chirping sound
TWEEZE: pluck with tweezers
TWELVE: denoting a quantity consisting of 12 items or units
TWENTY: denoting a quantity consisting of 20 items or units
TWERP: someone who is regarded as contemptible
TWICE: two times
TWIG: branch out in a twiglike manner
TWIGGY: thin as a twig
TWILL: 1. weave diagonal lines into (textiles). 2. a cloth with parallel diagonal lines or ribs. 
TWIN: 1. duplicate or match. 2. grow as twins. 3. give birth to twins. 
TWINE: make by twisting together or intertwining
TWINER: someone who intertwines (e.g. threads) or forms something by twisting or interlacing
TWINGE: feel a sudden sharp, local pain
TWINS: (mineralogy) two interwoven crystals that are mirror images on each other
TWIRL: turn in a twisting or spinning motion
TWIST: 1. practice sophistry; change the meaning of or be vague about in order to mislead or deceive. 2. social dancing in which couples vigorously twist their hips and arms in time to the music; was popular in the 1960s. 3. turning or twisting around (in place). 4. turn in the opposite direction. 5. form into a spiral shape. 6. form into twists. 7. do the twist. 8. twist suddenly so as to sprain. 
TWIT: aggravation by deriding or mocking or criticizing
TWITCH: 1. make an uncontrolled, short, jerky motion. 2. move or pull with a sudden motion. 
TWO: being one more than one
TWOFER: 1. an offer of two for the price of one. 2. a coupon that allows the holder to purchase two items (as two tickets to a play) for the price of one. 
TUSHAR: The developer of this program
UAKARI: medium-sized tree-dwelling monkey of the Amazon basin; only New World monkey with a short tail
UBIETY: the state of existing and being localized in space
UCA: fiddler crabs
UDDER: mammary gland of bovids (cows and sheep and goats)
UFA: a city in the European part of Russia
UGANDA: a landlocked republic in eastern Africa; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1962
UGLY: displeasing to the senses
UGLIFY: make ugly
UGRIC: one of the two branches of the Finno-Ugric family of languages; spoken in Hungary and northwestern Siberia
UHLAND: German romantic poet (1787-1862)
UIGHUR: 1. a member of a people who speak Uighur and live in Xinjiang and adjacent areas. 2. the Turkic language spoken by approximately 7,000,000 Uighur in extreme northwestern China. 3. the script (derived from Aramaic) used to write the Uighur language. 
UKASE: an edict of the Russian tsar
UKE: a small guitar having four strings
ULCER: a circumscribed inflammatory and often suppurating lesion on the skin or an internal mucous surface resulting in necrosis of tissue
ULEMA: the body of Mullahs (Muslim scholars trained in Islam and Islamic law) who are the interpreters of Islam's sciences and doctrines and laws and the chief guarantors of continuity in the spiritual and intellectual history of the Islamic community
ULEX: genus of Eurasian spiny shrubs: gorse
ULITIS: inflammation of the gums
ULL: (Norse mythology) one of the Aesir known for his beauty and skill with bow and skis; son of Sif and stepson of Thor
ULLAGE: the amount that a container (as a wine bottle or tank) lacks of being full
ULMUS: type genus of family Ulmaceae; deciduous trees having simple serrate leaves; widely distributed in temperate regions
ULNA: the inner and longer of the two bones of the human forearm
ULNAR: relating to or near the ulna
ULSTER: 1. a historic division of Ireland located in the northeastern part of the island; six of Ulster's nine counties are in Northern Ireland. 2. loose long overcoat of heavy fabric; usually belted. 
ULTIMA: the last syllable in a word
ULTIMO: in or of the month preceding the present one
ULVA: type genus of the family Ulvaceae; green seaweed having a thallus two cells thick: sea lettuce
UMA: 1. a benevolent aspect of Devi; `splendor'. 2. fringe-toed lizard. 
UMBEL: flat-topped or rounded inflorescence characteristic of the family Umbelliferae in which the individual flower stalks arise from about the same point; youngest flowers are at the center
UMBER: of the color of any of various natural brown earth pigments
UMBO: a slight rounded elevation where the malleus attaches to the eardrum
UMBRA: a region of complete shadow resulting from total obstruction of light
UMBRIA: a mountainous region in central Italy
UMLAUT: a diacritical mark (two dots) placed over a vowel in German to indicate a change in sound
UMPIRE: an official at a baseball game
UNABLE: 1. (usually followed by `to') not having the necessary means or skill or know-how. 2. (usually followed by `to') lacking necessary physical or mental ability. 
UNAGED: not subjected to an aging process
UNARY: consisting of or involving a single element or component
UNAWED: not awed
UNBAR: remove a bar from (a door)
UNBELT: undo the belt of
UNBEND: 1. unfasten, as a sail, from a spar or a stay. 2. free from flexure. 3. release from mental strain, tension, or formality. 
UNBENT: not bent
UNBIND: untie or unfasten
UNBOLT: undo the bolt of
UNBORN: not yet brought into existence
UNBOX: remove from a box
UNCIAL: relating to or written in majuscule letters (which resemble modern capitals)
UNCLE: 1. the brother of your father or mother; the husband of your aunt. 2. a source of help and advice and encouragement. 
UNCLIP: remove the clip from
UNCLOG: become or cause to become unobstructed
UNCOIL: unwind or untwist
UNCOOL: (spoken slang) unfashionable and boring
UNCORK: 1. release. 2. draw the cork from (bottles). 
UNCURL: move out of a curled position
UNCUS: (biology) any hook-shaped process or part
UNCUT: 1. not shaped by cutting or trimming. 2. (of pages of a book) having adjacent leaves still joined at the fore edge. 3. not cut. 4. not cut. 
UNDER: 1. through a range downward. 2. down to defeat, death, or ruin. 3. into unconsciousness. 4. in or into a state of subordination or subjugation. 5. below some quantity or limit. 6. below the horizon. 7. down below. 8. further down. 
UNDIES: women's underwear
UNDINE: any of various female water spirits
UNDO: 1. cancel, annul, or reverse an action or its effect. 2. cause the ruin or downfall of. 
UNDOCK: 1. move out of a dock. 2. take (a ship) out of a dock. 
UNDOER: 1. a seducer who ruins a woman. 2. a person who unfastens or unwraps or opens. 
UNDONE: 1. not done. 2. not fastened or tied or secured. 
UNDSET: Norwegian novelist (1882-1949)
UNDUE: 1. not yet payable. 2. not appropriate or proper (or even legal) in the circumstances. 3. lacking justification or authorization. 
UNDULY: to an undue degree
UNEASY: 1. lacking a sense of security or affording no ease or reassurance. 2. relating to bodily unease that causes discomfort. 
UNEVEN: 1. not even or uniform as e.g. in shape or texture. 2. variable and recurring at irregular intervals. 
UNFAIR: not fair; marked by injustice or partiality or deception
UNFED: 1. not fed. 2. not given support. 
UNFIRM: not firmly or solidly positioned
UNFIT: 1. below the required standards for a purpose. 2. not in good physical or mental condition; out of condition. 
UNFOLD: 1. open to the view. 2. extend or stretch out to a greater or the full length. 3. spread out or open from a closed or folded state. 
UNFREE: 1. held in servitude. 2. hampered and not free; not able to act at will. 
UNFURL: unroll, unfold, or spread out or be unrolled, unfolded, or spread out from a furled state
UNGUAL: of or relating to a nail or claw or hoof
UNHAND: remove the hand from
UNHEWN: (of stone especially) not given a finished form by or as if by hewing
UNHOLY: not hallowed or consecrated
UNHOOK: take off a hook
UNIAT: a member of the Uniat Church
UNIATE: of or relating to former Eastern Christian or Orthodox churches that have been received under the jurisdiction of the Church of Rome but retain their own rituals and practices and canon law
UNIFY: become one
UNIO: type genus of the family Unionidae
UNYOKE: remove the yoke from
UNION: 1. being of or having to do with the northern United States and those loyal to the Union during the American Civil War. 2. of trade unions. 3. the state of being joined or united or linked. 4. healing process involving the growing together of the edges of a wound or the growing together of broken bones. 5. a political unit formed from previously independent people or organizations. 6. a set containing all and only the members of two or more given sets. 7. the occurrence of a uniting of separate parts. 8. a device on a national flag emblematic of the union of two or more sovereignties (typically in the upper inner corner). 9. the act of making or becoming a single unit. 
UNIQUE: 1. (followed by `to') applying exclusively to a given category or condition or locality. 2. highly unusual or rare but not the single instance. 
UNISEX: not distinguished on the basis of sex
UNISON: 1. corresponding exactly. 2. occurring together or simultaneously. 3. (music) two or more sounds or tones at the same pitch or in octaves. 
UNIT: 1. an individual or group or structure or other entity regarded as a structural or functional constituent of a whole. 2. an organization regarded as part of a larger social group. 3. a single undivided whole. 4. a single undivided natural thing occurring in the composition of something else. 
UNITE: 1. act in concert or unite in a common purpose or belief. 2. have or possess in combination. 3. bring together for a common purpose or action or ideology or in a shared situation. 4. join or combine. 
UNITED: characterized by unity; being or joined into a single entity
UNIX: trademark for a powerful operating system
UNJUST: violating principles of justice
UNKIND: lacking kindness
UNLASH: untie the lashing of
UNLIKE: 1. marked by dissimilarity. 2. not equal in amount. 
UNLIVE: live so as to annul some previous behavior
UNLOAD: take the load off (a container or vehicle)
UNLOCK: 1. open the lock of. 2. set free or release. 3. become unlocked. 
UNMADE: (of a bed) not having the sheets and blankets set in order
UNMAKE: deprive of certain characteristics
UNMAN: cause to lose one's nerve
UNMASK: 1. reveal the true nature of. 2. take the mask off. 
UNMOWN: (used of grass or vegetation) not cut down with a hand implement or machine
UNPACK: remove from its packing
UNPAID: 1. not paid. 2. without payment. 
UNPICK: undo (the stitches) of (a piece of sewing)
UNPIN: remove the pins from; unfasten the pins of
UNPLUG: pull the plug of (electrical appliances) and render inoperable
UNREAD: not informed through reading
UNREAL: 1. lacking in reality or substance or genuineness; not corresponding to acknowledged facts or criteria. 2. not actually such; being or seeming fanciful or imaginary. 
UNREST: a feeling of restless agitation
UNRIPE: not fully prepared
UNSEAL: break the seal of
UNSEAT: 1. remove from political office. 2. dislodge from one's seat, as from a horse. 
UNSENT: not dispatched or transmitted
UNSEX: 1. deprive of sex or sexual powers. 2. remove the qualities typical of one's sex. 
UNSEXY: not sexually aroused or arousing
UNSHOD: not shod
UNSOLD: not disposed of by purchase
UNTIDY: not neat and tidy
UNTIE: 1. undo the ties of. 2. cause to become loose. 
UNTIED: not tied
UNTOLD: of an incalculable amount
UNTRUE: 1. not according with the facts. 2. not true to an obligation or trust. 
UNTUNE: cause to be out of tune
UNUSED: 1. not yet put into use. 2. infrequently exposed to. 
UNVEIL: 1. remove the veil from. 2. remove the cover from. 
UNWARY: not alert to danger or deception
UNWED: of someone who has not been married
UNWIND: 1. reverse the winding or twisting of. 2. separate the tangles of. 
UNWIRE: undo the wiring of
UNWISE: showing or resulting from lack of judgment or wisdom
UNWRAP: 1. remove the outer cover or wrapping of. 2. make known to the public information that was previously known only to a few people or that was meant to be kept a secret. 
UNZIP: open the zipper of
UP: 1. spatially or metaphorically from a lower to a higher position. 2. to a more central or a more northerly place. 3. to a later time. 4. open. 5. (used of computers) operating properly. 6. used up. 7. to a higher intensity. 8. nearer to the speaker. 
UPBEAT: an unaccented beat (especially the last beat of a measure)
UP-BOW: an upward stroke from the tip to the heel of the bow
UPCAST: air passage consisting of a ventilation shaft through which air leaves a mine
UPDATE: 1. modernize or bring up to date. 2. bring up to date; supply with recent information. 3. bring to the latest state of technology. 
UPEND: 1. become turned or set on end. 2. set, turn, or stand on end. 
UPHILL: 1. against difficulties. 2. upward on a hill or incline. 
UPHOLD: 1. stand up for; stick up for; of causes, principles, or ideals. 2. support against an opponent. 
UPLAND: used of high or hilly country
UPLIFT: 1. lift up from the earth, as by geologic forces. 2. lift up or elevate. 
UPLINK: a transmission from Earth to a spacecraft or the path of such a transmission
UPLOAD: transfer a file or program to a central computer from a smaller computer or a computer at a remote location
UPPER: 1. higher in place or position. 2. the topmost one of two. 3. superior in rank or accomplishment. 
UPRISE: ascend as a sound
UPROOT: 1. move (people) forcibly from their homeland into a new and foreign environment. 2. destroy completely, as if down to the roots. 3. pull up by or as if by the roots. 
UPSET: 1. cause to lose one's composure. 2. mildly physically distressed. 3. the act of upsetting something. 4. disturb the balance or stability of. 5. defeat suddenly and unexpectedly. 6. used of an unexpected defeat of a team favored to win. 
UPTAKE: a process of taking up or using up or consuming
UPTICK: a transaction in the stock market at a price above the price of the preceding transaction
UPTIME: a period of time when something (as a machine or factory) is functioning and available for use
UPTOWN: toward or in the upper part of town
UPTURN: an upward movement or trend as in business activity
UPUPA: type genus of the Upupidae
UPWARD: directed up
UPWIND: 1. towards the side exposed to wind. 2. in the direction opposite to the direction the wind is blowing. 
URACIL: a base containing nitrogen that is found in RNA (but not in DNA) and derived from pyrimidine; pairs with adenine
URALIC: a family of Ural-Altaic languages
URANIA: (Greek mythology) the Muse of astronomy
URANYL: the bivalent radical UO2 which forms salts with acids
URANUS: a giant planet with a ring of ice particles; the 7th planet from the sun has a blue-green color and many satellites
URATE: a salt of uric acid
URBAN: 1. relating to or concerned with a city or densely populated area. 2. located in or characteristic of a city or city life. 
URBANA: a university town in east central Illinois adjoining Champaign
URCHIN: poor and often mischievous city child
UREA: the chief solid component of mammalian urine; synthesized from ammonia and carbon dioxide and used as fertilizer and in animal feed and in plastics
UREASE: an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of urea into carbon dioxide and ammonia; is present in intestinal bacteria
UREMIA: accumulation in the blood of nitrogenous waste products (urea) that are usually excreted in the urine
URETER: either of a pair of thick-walled tubes that carry urine from the kidney to the urinary bladder
URGE: 1. force or impel in an indicated direction. 2. a strong restless desire. 
URGING: the act of earnestly supporting or encouraging
URIA: murres
URIAH: (Old Testament) the husband of Bathsheba and a soldier who was sent to die in battle so that king David could marry his wife (circa 10th century BC)
URIAL: bearded reddish sheep of southern Asia
URIC: in or relating to or obtained from urine
URINAL: a plumbing fixture (usually attached to the wall) used by men to urinate
URINE: liquid excretory product
URMIA: a city on the western side of Lake Urmia in northwestern Iran
URN: 1. a large vase that usually has a pedestal or feet. 2. a large pot for making coffee or tea. 
URSINE: of or relating to or similar to bears
URSUS: type genus of Ursidae: brown bears; in some classifications genus Ursus includes all bears
URTICA: a nettle yielding fiber resembling flax
USAGE: the customary manner in which a language (or a form of a language) is spoken or written
USANCE: the period of time permitted by commercial usage for the payment of a bill of exchange (especially a foreign bill of exchange)
USE: 1. put into service; make work or employ for a particular purpose or for its inherent or natural purpose. 2. use up, consume fully. 3. (law) the exercise of the legal right to enjoy the benefits of owning property. 4. take or consume (regularly or habitually). 5. seek or achieve an end by using to one's advantage. 6. habitually do something (use only in the past tense). 
USED: employed in accomplishing something
USEFUL: being of use or service
USER: a person who makes use of a thing; someone who uses or employs something
USHER: 1. an official stationed at the entrance of a courtroom or legislative chamber. 2. someone employed to conduct others. 3. take (someone) to their seats, as in theaters or auditoriums. 
USNEA: widely distributed lichens usually having a greyish or yellow pendulous freely branched thallus
USSHER: Irish prelate who deduced from the Bible that Creation occurred in the year 4004 BC (1581-1656)
USUAL: occurring or encountered or experienced or observed frequently or in accordance with regular practice or procedure
USURER: someone who lends money at excessive rates of interest
USURY: 1. an exorbitant or unlawful rate of interest. 2. the act of lending money at an exorbitant rate of interest. 
USURP: take the place of
UTA: a reptile genus of Iguanidae
UTAH: a state in the western United States; settled in 1847 by Mormons led by Brigham Young
UTAHAN: a native or resident of Utah
UTE: 1. a member of the Shoshonean people of Utah and Colorado and New Mexico. 2. the Shoshonean language spoken by the Utes. 
UTERUS: a hollow muscular organ in the pelvic cavity of females; contains the developing fetus
UTICA: 1. a city in central New York. 2. an ancient city on the north coast of Africa (northwest of Carthage); destroyed by Arabs around 700 AD. 
UTMOST: the greatest possible degree
UTOPIA: 1. a book written by Sir Thomas More (1516) describing the perfect society on an imaginary island. 2. ideally perfect state; especially in its social and political and moral aspects. 3. a work of fiction describing a utopia. 4. an imaginary place considered to be perfect or ideal. 
UTTER: 1. express audibly; utter sounds (not necessarily words). 2. put into circulation. 
UTU: sun god; counterpart of Akkadian Shamash
U-TURN: complete reversal of direction of travel
UVEA: the part of the eye that contains the iris and ciliary body and choroid
UVEAL: of or relating to the uvea of the eye
UVULA: a small pendant fleshy lobe at the back of the soft palate
UVULAR: of or relating to or associated with the uvula
UZBEK: 1. a member of a Turkic people of Uzbekistan and neighboring areas. 2. the Turkic language spoken by the Uzbek. 
VAC: informal term for vacation
VACANT: 1. void of thought or knowledge. 2. without an occupant or incumbent. 
VACATE: 1. leave (a job, post, or position) voluntarily. 2. leave behind empty; move out of. 
VACUUM: 1. clean with a vacuum cleaner. 2. a region that is devoid of matter. 3. an electrical home appliance that cleans by suction. 
VADUZ: the capital and largest city of Liechtenstein
VAGAL: of or relating to the vagus nerve
VAGARY: an unexpected and inexplicable change in something (in a situation or a person's behavior, etc.)
VAGILE: having freedom to move about
VAGINA: the lower part of the female reproductive tract; a moist canal in female mammals extending from the labia minora to the uterus
VAGUS: a mixed nerve that supplies the pharynx and larynx and lungs and heart and esophagus and stomach and most of the abdominal viscera
VAINLY: to no avail
VAISYA: 1. a member of the mercantile and professional Hindu caste; the third of the four main castes. 2. the third of the four varnas: the commoners or yeoman farmers or mercantile and professional category. 
VAYU: Hindu wind god
VAJRA: Indra's thunderbolt
VALDEZ: a port on Alaska's southern coast from which oil is shipped to markets around the world
VALENT: (chemistry) having valence; usually used in combination
VALET: serve as a personal attendant to
VALGUS: a deformity in which there is an abnormal displacement of part of a limb away from the midline of the body
VALI: (Norse mythology) one of the Aesir and avenger of Balder; son of Odin
VALID: 1. well grounded in logic or truth or having legal force. 2. still legally acceptable. 
VALINE: an essential amino acid found in proteins; important for growth in children and nitrogen balance in adults
VALISE: a small overnight bag for short trips
VALLEY: a long depression in the surface of the land that usually contains a river
VALMY: the French defeated the Austrian and Prussian troops in 1792 (with a famous cannonade from the French artillery)
VALOIS: French royal house from 1328 to 1589
VALUE: 1. fix or determine the value of; assign a value to. 2. the quality (positive or negative) that renders something desirable or valuable. 3. the amount (of money or goods or services) that is considered to be a fair equivalent for something else. 4. relative darkness or lightness of a color. 5. (music) the relative duration of a musical note. 6. an ideal accepted by some individual or group. 
VALUED: 1. (usually used in combination) having value of a specified kind. 2. held in great esteem for admirable qualities especially of an intrinsic nature. 
VALUER: someone who assesses the monetary worth of possessions
VALUES: beliefs of a person or social group in which they have an emotional investment (either for or against something)
VALVE: 1. a structure in a hollow organ (like the heart) with a flap to insure one-way flow of fluid through it. 2. device in a brass wind instrument for varying the length of the air column to alter the pitch of a tone. 3. control consisting of a mechanical device for controlling the flow of a fluid. 4. the entire one-piece shell of a snail and certain other molluscs. 5. one of the paired hinged shells of certain molluscs and of brachiopods. 
VALVED: (of brass instruments) having valves
VAMP: 1. piece (something old) with a new part. 2. act seductively with (someone). 3. make up. 4. provide (a shoe) with a new vamp. 
VAN: 1. (Great Britain) a closed railroad car that carries baggage or freight. 2. a camper equipped with living quarters. 3. a truck with an enclosed cargo space. 
VANDA: any of numerous showy orchids of the genus Vanda having many large flowers in loose racemes
VANDAL: 1. someone who willfully destroys or defaces property. 2. a member of the Germanic people who overran Gaul and Spain and North Africa and sacked Rome in 455. 
VANE: 1. a fin attached to the tail of an arrow, bomb or missile in order to stabilize or guide it. 2. the flattened weblike part of a feather consisting of a series of barbs on either side of the shaft. 
VANIR: (Norse mythology) race of ancient gods sometimes in conflict with the Aesir
VANISH: 1. become invisible or unnoticeable. 2. cease to exist. 3. decrease rapidly and disappear. 
VANITY: the quality of being valueless or futile
VAPID: lacking significance or liveliness or spirit or zest
VAPOR: a visible suspension in the air of particles of some substance
VARA: a Spanish unit of length (about a yard) having different values in different localities
VARGAS: Brazilian statesman who ruled Brazil as a virtual dictator (1883-1954)
VARY: 1. be subject to change in accordance with a variable. 2. make something more diverse and varied. 
VARIED: 1. characterized by variety. 2. widely different. 3. broken away from sameness or identity or duplication. 
VARIX: abnormally enlarged or twisted blood vessel or lymphatic vessel
VARNA: 1. a port city in northeastern Bulgaria on the Black Sea. 2. (Hinduism) the name for the original social division of Vedic people into four groups (which are subdivided into thousands of jatis). 
VARRO: Roman scholar (116-27 BC)
VARUNA: in Vedism, god of the night sky who with his thousand eyes watches over human conduct and judges good and evil and punishes evildoers; often considered king of the Hindu gods and frequently paired with Mitra as an upholder of the world
VARUS: a deformity in which part of a limb is turned inward to an abnormal degree
VASARI: Italian painter and art historian (1511-1574)
VASE: an open jar of glass or porcelain used as an ornament or to hold flowers
VASSAL: a person holding a fief; a person who owes allegiance and service to a feudal lord
VASTLY: to an exceedingly great extent or degree
VAT: a tax levied on the difference between a commodity's price before taxes and its cost of production
VAULT: 1. jump across or leap over (an obstacle). 2. bound vigorously. 3. an arched brick or stone ceiling or roof. 4. the act of jumping over an obstacle. 
VAUNT: extravagant self-praise
V-DAY: the day of a victory
VEADAR: included seven times in every 19 years
VEAL: meat from a calf
VECTOR: 1. a variable quantity that can be resolved into components. 2. a straight line segment whose length is magnitude and whose orientation in space is direction. 3. any agent (person or animal or microorganism) that carries and transmits a disease. 4. (genetics) a virus or other agent that is used to deliver DNA to a cell. 
VEDIC: of or relating to the Vedas or to the ancient Sanskrit in which they were written
VEDISM: the form of Hinduism that revolves primarily around the mythic version and ritual ideologies in the Vedas
VEDIST: a scholar of or an authority on the Vedas
VEER: shift to a clockwise direction
VEERY: tawny brown North American thrush noted for its song
VEGA: 1. prolific Spanish playwright (1562-1635). 2. the brightest star in the constellation Lyra. 
VEGAN: a strict vegetarian; someone who eats no animal or dairy products at all
VEIL: 1. a membranous covering attached to the immature fruiting body of certain mushrooms. 2. to obscure, or conceal with or as if with a veil. 
VEILED: 1. having or as if having a veil or concealing cover. 2. muted or unclear. 
VEIN: 1. make a veinlike pattern. 2. a distinctive style or manner. 3. any of the vascular bundles or ribs that form the branching framework of conducting and supporting tissues in a leaf or other plant organ. 4. a layer of ore between layers of rock. 5. one of the horny ribs that stiffen and support the wing of an insect. 
VEINAL: relating to the veins of plants
VEINED: having or showing markings that resemble veins
VELA: a constellation in the southern hemisphere between Carina and Pyxis
VELAR: 1. of or relating to the velum. 2. produced with the back of the tongue touching or near the soft palate (as `k' in `cat' and `g' in `gun' and `ng' in `sing'). 
VELCRO: fasten with Velcro
VELD: elevated open grassland in southern Africa
VELLUM: 1. a heavy creamy-colored paper resembling parchment. 2. fine parchment prepared from the skin of a young animal e.g. a calf or lamb. 
VELOUR: heavy fabric that resembles velvet
VELVET: 1. smooth and soft to sight or hearing or touch or taste. 2. resembling velvet in having a smooth soft surface. 
VENEER: cover with veneer
VENETO: a region of northeastern Italy on the Adriatic
VENICE: the provincial capital of Veneto; built on 118 islands within a lagoon in the Gulf of Venice; has canals instead of streets; one of Italy's major ports and a famous tourist attraction
VENN: English logician who introduced Venn diagrams (1834-1923)
VENOM: toxin secreted by animals; secreted by certain snakes and poisonous insects (e.g., spiders and scorpions)
VENOUS: of or contained in or performing the function of the veins
VENT: 1. give expression or utterance to. 2. expose to cool or cold air so as to cool or freshen. 3. a fissure in the earth's crust (or in the surface of some other planet) through which molten lava and gases erupt. 4. a slit in a garment (as in the back seam of a jacket). 
VENTED: supplied with a vent or vents for intake of air or discharge of gases
VENTER: 1. a speaker who expresses or gives vent to a personal opinion or grievance. 2. the womb. 3. a bulging body part (as the belly of a muscle). 
VENUE: 1. the scene of any event or action (especially the place of a meeting). 2. in law: the jurisdiction where a trial will be held. 
VENULE: a minute vein continuous with a capillary
VENUS: 1. the second nearest planet to the sun; it is peculiar in that its rotation is slow and retrograde (in the opposite sense of the Earth and all other planets except Uranus); it is visible from Earth as an early `morning star' or an `evening star'. 2. goddess of love; counterpart of Greek Aphrodite. 3. type genus of the family Veneridae: genus of edible clams with thick oval shells. 
VEPS: 1. a member of a Finnish people of Russia. 2. a Finnic language spoken by the Veps. 
VERB: 1. the word class that serves as the predicate of a sentence. 2. a content word that denotes an action, occurrence, or state of existence. 
VERBAL: 1. communicated in the form of words. 2. of or relating to or formed from words in general. 3. of or relating to or formed from a verb. 4. relating to or having facility in the use of words. 5. expressed in spoken words. 6. prolix. 
VERDI: Italian operatic composer (1813-1901)
VERDIN: very small yellow-headed titmouse of western North America
VERDUN: a battle in World War I (1916); in some of the bloodiest fighting in World War I the German offensive was stopped
VERGE: 1. the limit beyond which something happens or changes. 2. a grass border along a road. 3. border on; come close to. 
VERGER: a church officer who takes care of the interior of the building and acts as an attendant (carries the verge) during ceremonies
VERY: 1. used as intensifiers; `real' is sometimes used informally for `really'; `rattling' is informal. 2. precisely so. 
VERIFY: 1. confirm the truth of. 2. attach or append a legal verification to (a pleading or petition). 
VERILY: in truth; certainly
VERITY: an enduring or necessary ethical or religious or aesthetic truth
VERMIN: 1. an irritating or obnoxious person. 2. any of various small animals or insects that are pests; e.g. cockroaches or rats. 
VERMIS: the narrow central part of the cerebellum between the two hemispheres
VERNAL: of or characteristic of or occurring in spring
VERNE: French writer who is considered the father of science fiction (1828-1905)
VERNER: Danish philologist (1846-1896)
VERNIX: a white cheeselike protective material that covers the skin of a fetus
VERONA: a city in Veneto on the River Adige
VERPA: a morel whose fertile portion resembles a bell and is attached to the stipe only at the top
VERSE: 1. familiarize through thorough study or experience. 2. a line of metrical text. 3. compose verses or put into verse. 
VERSO: left-hand page
VERST: a Russian unit of length (1.067 km)
VERTEX: 1. the point of intersection of lines or the point opposite the base of a figure. 2. the highest point (of something). 
VERVET: South African monkey with black face and hands
VESPA: type genus of the Vespidae: various hornets and yellow jackets
VESPER: a late afternoon or evening worship service
VESPID: mostly social nest-building wasps
VESSEL: 1. a tube in which a body fluid circulates. 2. a craft designed for water transportation. 3. an object used as a container (especially for liquids). 
VEST: 1. a man's sleeveless garment worn underneath a coat. 2. place (authority, property, or rights) in the control of a person or group of persons. 3. become legally vested. 4. clothe oneself in ecclesiastical garments. 5. clothe formally; especially in ecclesiastical robes. 
VESTA: 1. (Roman mythology) goddess of the hearth and its fire whose flame was tended by vestal virgins; counterpart of Greek Hestia. 2. the brightest asteroid but the fourth to be discovered. 
VESTAL: of or relating to Vesta
VESTED: fixed and absolute and without contingency
VESTRY: 1. in the Protestant Episcopal Church: a committee elected by the congregation to work with the churchwardens in managing the temporal affairs of the church. 2. a room in a church where sacred vessels and vestments are kept or meetings are held. 
VET: 1. work as a veterinarian. 2. examine carefully. 3. provide (a person) with medical care. 4. provide veterinary care for. 
VETCH: any of various climbing plants of the genus Vicia having pinnately compound leaves that terminate in tendrils and small variously colored flowers; includes valuable forage and soil-building plants
VETO: 1. vote against; refuse to endorse; refuse to assent. 2. the power or right to prohibit or reject a proposed or intended act (especially the power of a chief executive to reject a bill passed by the legislature). 
VEX: subject to prolonged examination, discussion, or deliberation
VEXED: causing difficulty in finding an answer or solution; much disputed
VIABLE: capable of life or normal growth and development
VIAND: a choice or delicious dish
VIBIST: a musician who plays the vibraphone
VIBORG: a town of Denmark in north central Jutland
VIBRIO: curved rodlike motile bacterium
VICAR: 1. a Roman Catholic priest who acts for another higher-ranking clergyman. 2. (Episcopal Church) a clergyman in charge of a chapel. 3. (Church of England) a clergyman appointed to act as priest of a parish. 
VICE: a specific form of evildoing
VICHY: a town in central France (south of Paris) noted for hot mineral springs; was capital of the unoccupied part of France during World War II
VICIA: widely distributed genus of annual or perennial and often climbing herbs
VICTIM: 1. an unfortunate person who suffers from some adverse circumstance. 2. a person who is tricked or swindled. 
VICTOR: a combatant who is able to defeat rivals
VICUNA: 1. the wool of the vicuna. 2. a soft wool fabric made from the fleece of the vicuna. 3. small wild cud-chewing Andean animal similar to the guanaco but smaller; valued for its fleecy undercoat. 
VIDEO: 1. the visible part of a television transmission. 2. (computer science) the appearance of text and graphics on a video display. 
VIDUA: whydahs
VIENNA: the capital and largest city of Austria; located on the Danube in northeastern Austria; was the home of Beethoven and Brahms and Haydn and Mozart and Schubert and Strauss
VIENNE: 1. a town in south central France where is 1311-1313 the Roman Catholic Church held one of its councils. 2. the council in 1311-1313 that dealt with alleged crimes of the Knights Templar, planned a new crusade, and took on the reformation of the clergy. 
VIEW: 1. look at carefully; study mentally. 2. the act of looking or seeing or observing. 3. the range of the eye. 4. purpose; the phrase `with a view to' means `with the intention of' or `for the purpose of'. 5. outward appearance. 
VIEWER: an optical device for viewing photographic transparencies
VIGIL: 1. a period of sleeplessness. 2. the rite of staying awake for devotional purposes (especially on the eve of a religious festival). 
VIGOR: active strength of body or mind
VIKING: any of the Scandinavian people who raided the coasts of Europe from the 8th to the 11th centuries
VILELY: in a vile manner
VILIFY: spread negative information about
VILLA: 1. Mexican revolutionary leader (1877-1923). 2. detached or semidetached suburban house. 3. country house in ancient Rome consisting of residential quarters and farm buildings around a courtyard. 4. pretentious and luxurious country residence with extensive grounds. 
VILLON: French poet (flourished around 1460)
VILLUS: a minute hairlike projection on mucous membrane
VINCA: periwinkles: low creeping evergreen perennials
VINE: a plant with a weak stem that derives support from climbing, twining, or creeping along a surface
VINIFY: convert a juice into wine by fermentation
VINYL: 1. a univalent chemical radical derived from ethylene. 2. shiny and tough and flexible plastic; used especially for floor coverings. 
VINOUS: of or relating to wine
VIOL: any of a family of bowed stringed instruments that preceded the violin family
VIOLA: 1. any of the numerous plants of the genus Viola. 2. large genus of flowering herbs of temperate regions. 3. a bowed stringed instrument slightly larger than a violin, tuned a fifth lower. 
VIOLET: 1. any of numerous low-growing violas with small flowers. 2. a variable color that lies beyond blue in the spectrum. 
VIOLIN: bowed stringed instrument that is the highest member of the violin family; this instrument has four strings and a hollow body and an unfretted fingerboard and is played with a bow
VIPER: venomous Old World snakes characterized by hollow venom-conducting fangs in the upper jaw
VIPERA: type genus of the Viperidae
VIRAGO: a noisy or scolding or domineering woman
VIRAL: relating to or caused by a virus
VIREO: any of various small insectivorous American birds chiefly olive-grey in color
VIRGA: light wispy precipitation that evaporates before it reaches the ground (especially when the lower air is low in humidity)
VIRGIL: a Roman poet; author of the epic poem `Aeneid' (70-19 BC)
VIRGIN: being used or worked for the first time
VIRGO: 1. (astrology) a person who is born while the sun is in Virgo. 2. a large zodiacal constellation on the equator; between Leo and Libra. 3. the sixth sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about August 23 to September 22. 
VIRILE: characterized by energy and vigor
VIRION: (virology) a complete viral particle; nucleic acid and capsid (and a lipid envelope in some viruses)
VIROID: the smallest of viruses; a plant virus with its RNA arranged in a circular chromosome without a protein coat
VIRTU: 1. love of or taste for fine objects of art. 2. artistic quality. 3. objet d'art collectively (especially fine antiques). 
VIRTUE: 1. the quality of doing what is right and avoiding what is wrong. 2. morality with respect to sexual relations. 3. a particular moral excellence. 
VIRUS: 1. (virology) ultramicroscopic infectious agent that replicates itself only within cells of living hosts; many are pathogenic; a piece of nucleic acid (DNA or RNA) wrapped in a thin coat of protein. 2. a harmful or corrupting agency. 3. a software program capable of reproducing itself and usually capable of causing great harm to files or other programs on the same computer. 
VISA: 1. provide (a passport) with a visa. 2. approve officially. 
VISCUM: type genus of the Viscaceae: Old World evergreen shrubs parasitic on many trees including oaks but especially apple trees, poplars, aspens and cottonwoods
VISE: a holding device attached to a workbench; has two jaws to hold workpiece firmly in place
VISHNU: the sustainer; a Hindu divinity worshipped as the preserver of worlds
VISION: 1. a vivid mental image. 2. the perceptual experience of seeing. 3. a religious or mystical experience of a supernatural appearance. 
VISIT: 1. go to see a place, as for entertainment. 2. a meeting arranged by the visitor to see someone (such as a doctor or lawyer) for treatment or advice. 3. pay a brief visit. 4. come to see in an official or professional capacity. 5. stay with as a guest. 6. assail. 
VISOR: a piece of armor plate (with eye slits) fixed or hinged to a medieval helmet to protect the face
VITAL: 1. performing an essential function in the living body. 2. manifesting or characteristic of life. 
VITIS: the type genus of the family Vitaceae; woody vines with simple leaves and small flowers; includes a wide variety of grapes
VITUS: Christian martyr and patron of those who suffer from epilepsy and Sydenham's chorea (died around 300)
VIVACE: lively, in music
VIVID: having the clarity and freshness of immediate experience
VIVIFY: make more striking or animated
VIXEN: 1. a malicious woman with a fierce temper. 2. a female fox. 
VIZIER: a high official in a Muslim government (especially in the Ottoman Empire)
VIZSLA: Hungarian hunting dog resembling the Weimaraner but having a rich deep red coat
VOCAL: 1. relating to or designed for or using the singing voice. 2. having or using the power to produce speech or sound. 3. full of the sound of voices. 
VODKA: unaged colorless liquor originating in Russia
VOGUE: 1. the popular taste at a given time. 2. a current state of general acceptance and use. 
VOGUL: a member of a nomadic people of the northern Urals
VOYAGE: 1. a journey to some distant place. 2. travel on water propelled by wind or by other means. 
VOICE: 1. give voice to. 2. utter with vibrating vocal chords. 3. a sound suggestive of a vocal utterance. 4. a means or agency by which something is expressed or communicated. 5. something suggestive of speech in being a medium of expression. 6. (metonymy) a singer. 7. the ability to speak. 8. (linguistics) the grammatical relation (active or passive) of the grammatical subject of a verb to the action that the verb denotes. 
VOICED: produced with vibration of the vocal cords; 
VOICER: 1. someone who regulates the tone of organ pipes. 2. a speaker who voices an opinion. 
VOID: containing nothing
VOIDER: a piece of chain mail covering a place unprotected by armor plate
VOYEUR: a viewer who enjoys seeing the sex acts or sex organs of others
VOILE: a light semitransparent fabric
VOLANS: a small constellation in the polar region of the southern hemisphere near Dorado and Carina
VOLANT: with wings extended in a flying position
VOLE: any of various small mouselike rodents of the family Cricetidae (especially of genus Microtus) having a stout short-tailed body and inconspicuous ears and inhabiting fields or meadows
VOLGA: a Russian river; the longest river in Europe; flows into the Caspian Sea
VOLLEY: 1. hit before it touches the ground. 2. be dispersed in a volley. 3. discharge in, or as if in, a volley. 4. make a volley. 5. utter rapidly. 
VOLT: a unit of potential equal to the potential difference between two points on a conductor carrying a current of 1 ampere when the power dissipated between the two points is 1 watt; equivalent to the potential difference across a resistance of 1 ohm when 1 ampere of current flows through it
VOLTA: 1. Italian physicist after whom the volt is named; studied electric currents and invented the voltaic pile (1745-1827). 2. a river in Ghana that flows south to the Bight of Benin. 
VOLUME: 1. the amount of 3-dimensional space occupied by an object. 2. a publication that is one of a set of several similar publications. 3. a relative amount. 4. the magnitude of sound (usually in a specified direction). 
VOLUND: (Norse mythology) a wonderful smith; identified with Anglo-Saxon Wayland and Teutonic Wieland
VOLVA: cuplike structure around the base of the stalk of certain fungi
VOLVOX: type genus of the Volvocaceae; minute pale green flagellates occurring in tiny spherical colonies; minute flagella rotate the colony about an axis
VOMER: thin trapezoidal bone of the skull forming the posterior and inferior parts of the nasal septum
VOMIT: 1. eject the contents of the stomach through the mouth. 2. the reflex act of ejecting the contents of the stomach through the mouth. 
VOODOO: 1. (Haiti) followers of a religion that involves witchcraft and animistic deities. 2. a religious cult practiced chiefly in Caribbean countries (especially Haiti); involves witchcraft and animistic deities. 3. bewitch by or as if by a voodoo. 
VOTARY: 1. one bound by vows to a religion or life of worship or service. 2. a priest or priestess (or consecrated worshipper) in a non-Christian religion or cult. 3. a devoted (almost religiously so) adherent of a cause or person or activity. 
VOTE: 1. express one's preference for a candidate or for a measure or resolution; cast a vote. 2. express one's choice or preference by vote. 3. be guided by in voting. 4. bring into existence or make available by vote. 5. express a choice or opinion. 
VOTER: a citizen who has a legal right to vote
VOTIVE: dedicated in fulfillment of a vow
VOUCH: 1. give personal assurance; guarantee. 2. summon (a vouchee) into court to warrant or defend a title. 3. give supporting evidence. 
VOUGE: a kind of pike used by foot soldiers in the 14th century
VOW: 1. make a vow; promise. 2. dedicate to a deity by a vow. 
VOWEL: 1. a speech sound made with the vocal tract open. 2. a letter of the alphabet standing for a spoken vowel. 
VOWER: someone who makes a solemn promise to do something or behave in a certain way
VROOM: make a loud, roaring sound, as of a car engine, while moving
VULCAN: (Roman mythology) god of fire and metal working; counterpart of Greek Hephaestus
VULPES: foxes
VULTUR: a bird that is usually restricted to the Andean condor
VULVA: external parts of the female genitalia
VULVAR: of or relating to the vulva
WABASH: a tributary of the Ohio River that rises in western Ohio and flows southwestward across Indiana
WAC: a member of the Women's Army Corps
WACO: a city in east central Texas
WAD: a small mass of soft material
WADDLE: walking with short steps and the weight tilting from one foot to the other
WADE: walk (through relatively shallow water)
WADERS: waterproof hip boots (sometimes extending to the chest) worn by anglers
WADI: gully or streambed in northern Africa and the Middle East that remains dry except during rainy season
WADING: walking with your feet in shallow water
WAFER: 1. a small adhesive disk of paste; used to seal letters. 2. a small thin crisp cake or cookie. 3. thin disk of unleavened bread used in a religious service (especially in the celebration of the Eucharist). 
WAFFLE: pancake batter baked in a waffle iron
WAFT: 1. be driven or carried along, as by the air. 2. blow gently. 
WAG: 1. move from side to side. 2. causing to move repeatedly from side to side. 
WAGE: something that remunerates
WAGES: a recompense for worthy acts or retribution for wrongdoing
WAGNER: 1. Austrian architect and pioneer of modern architecture (1841-1918). 2. German composer of operas and inventor of the musical drama in which drama and spectacle and music are fused (1813-1883). 3. the music of Wagner. 
WAGON: 1. any of various kinds of wheeled vehicles drawn by an animal or a tractor. 2. a child's four-wheeled toy cart sometimes used for coasting. 
WAGRAM: 1. a town in northeastern Austria. 2. a battle in the Napoleonic campaigns (1809); Napoleon defeated the Austrians. 
WAHOO: 1. deciduous shrub having purple capsules enclosing scarlet seeds. 2. large fast-moving predacious food and game fish; found worldwide. 
WAY: 1. the condition of things generally. 2. a course of conduct. 3. any artifact consisting of a road or path affording passage from one place to another. 4. a journey or passage. 5. the property of distance in general. 6. doing as one pleases or chooses. 7. a general category of things; used in the expression `in the way of'. 8. a portion of something divided into shares. 9. to a great degree or by a great distance; very much (`right smart' is regional in the United States). 
WAIF: a homeless child especially one forsaken or orphaned
WAIL: cry weakly or softly
WAILER: a mourner who utters long loud high-pitched cries
WAIN: 1. English writer (1925-1994). 2. large open farm wagon. 
WAYS: structure consisting of a sloping way down to the water from the place where ships are built or repaired
WAIST: the narrowing of the body between the ribs and hips
WAIT: 1. wait before acting. 2. stay in one place and anticipate or expect something. 3. serve as a waiter or waitress in a restaurant. 
WAITER: 1. a person whose occupation is to serve at table (as in a restaurant). 2. a person who waits or awaits. 
WAIVE: do without or cease to hold or adhere to
WAJDA: Polish filmmaker (born in 1929)
WAKE: 1. the wave that spreads behind a boat as it moves forward. 2. make aware of. 3. be awake, be alert, be there. 
WAKER: 1. someone who rouses others from sleep. 2. a person who awakes. 
WAKING: marked by full consciousness or alertness
WALE: 1. a raised mark on the skin (as produced by the blow of a whip); characteristic of many allergic reactions. 2. thick plank forming a ridge along the side of a wooden ship. 
WALES: one of the four countries that make up the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland; during Roman times the region was known as Cambria
WALK: 1. use one's feet to advance; advance by steps. 2. obtain a base on balls. 3. traverse or cover by walking. 4. give a base on balls to. 5. live or behave in a specified manner. 6. accompany or escort. 7. be or act in association with. 8. walk at a pace. 9. make walk. 10. take a walk; go for a walk; walk for pleasure. 
WALKER: 1. New Zealand runner who in 1975 became the first person to run a mile in less that 3 minutes and 50 seconds (born in 1952). 2. United States writer (born in 1944). 3. a shoe designed for comfortable walking. 4. a light enclosing framework (trade name Zimmer) with rubber castors or wheels and handles; helps invalids or the handicapped or the aged to walk. 5. an enclosing framework on casters or wheels; helps babies learn to walk. 
WALL: 1. surround with a wall in order to fortify. 2. anything that suggests a wall in structure or function or effect. 3. (anatomy) a layer (a lining or membrane) that encloses a structure. 4. a difficult or awkward situation. 5. a vertical (or almost vertical) smooth rock face (as of a cave or mountain). 6. a layer of material that encloses space. 7. a masonry fence (as around an estate or garden). 
WALLAH: usually in combination: person in charge of or employed at a particular thing
WALLET: a pocket-size case for holding papers and paper money
WALLY: a silly and inept person; someone who is regarded as stupid
WALLOP: defeat soundly and utterly
WALLOW: 1. devote oneself entirely to something; indulge in to an immoderate degree, usually with pleasure. 2. roll around, "pigs were wallowing in the mud". 3. be ecstatic with joy. 4. delight greatly in. 
WALNUT: 1. nut of any of various walnut trees having a wrinkled two-lobed seed with a hard shell. 2. hard dark-brown wood of any of various walnut trees; used especially for furniture and paneling. 3. any of various trees of the genus Juglans. 
WALRUS: either of two large northern marine mammals having ivory tusks and tough hide over thick blubber
WALTER: German conductor (1876-1962)
WALTON: 1. English composer (1902-1983). 2. English writer remember for his treatise on fishing (1593-1683). 3. Irish physicist who (with Sir John Cockcroft in 1931) first split an atom (1903-1995). 
WALTZ: 1. music composed in triple time for waltzing. 2. a ballroom dance in triple time with a strong accent on the first beat. 3. dance a waltz. 
WAMBLE: move unsteadily or with a weaving or rolling motion
WAMPUM: small cylindrical beads made from polished shells and fashioned into strings or belts; used by certain Native American peoples as jewelry or currency
WAN: 1. become pale and sickly. 2. lacking vitality as from weariness or illness or unhappiness. 
WAND: 1. a rod used by a magician or water diviner. 2. a thin supple twig or rod. 
WANDER: go via an indirect route or at no set pace
WANE: 1. become smaller. 2. decrease in phase. 
WANGLE: achieve something by means of trickery or devious methods
WANING: (of the Moon) pertaining to the period during which the visible surface of the moon decreases
WANLY: in a weak or pale or languid manner
WANT: 1. have need of. 2. hunt or look for; want for a particular reason. 3. wish or demand the presence of. 4. be without, lack; be deficient in. 
WANTED: desired or wished for or sought
WANTER: a person who wants or needs something
WANTON: 1. lewd or lascivious woman. 2. indulge in a carefree or voluptuous way of life. 3. spend wastefully. 4. engage in amorous play. 5. behave extremely cruelly and brutally. 
WAPITI: large North American deer with large much-branched antlers in the male
WAR: 1. make or wage war. 2. a legal state created by a declaration of war and ended by official declaration during which the international rules of war apply. 3. an active struggle between competing entities. 4. a concerted campaign to end something that is injurious. 
WARBLE: sing or play with trills, alternating with the half note above or below
WARD: 1. a person who is under the protection or in the custody of another. 2. a district into which a city or town is divided for the purpose of administration and elections. 3. block forming a division of a hospital (or a suite of rooms) shared by patients who need a similar kind of care. 4. English economist and conservationist (1914-1981). 5. English writer of novels who was an active opponent of the women's suffrage movement (1851-1920). 6. United States businessman who in 1872 established a successful mail-order business (1843-1913). 
WARDEN: the chief official in charge of a prison
WARDER: a person who works in a prison and is in charge of prisoners
WARE: articles of the same kind or material; usually used in combination: `silverware', `software'
WARY: marked by keen caution and watchful prudence
WARILY: in a wary manner
WARM: 1. having or producing a comfortable and agreeable degree of heat or imparting or maintaining heat. 2. psychologically warm; friendly and responsive. 3. (color) inducing the impression of warmth; used especially of reds and oranges and yellows. 4. characterized by liveliness or excitement or disagreement. 5. uncomfortable because of possible danger or trouble. 6. of a seeker; near to the object sought. 
WARMED: having been warmed up
WARMLY: in a warm manner
WARMTH: the quality of having a moderate degree of heat
WARN: 1. notify of danger, potential harm, or risk. 2. admonish or counsel in terms of someone's behavior. 3. ask to go away. 4. notify, usually in advance. 
WARNER: 1. United States filmmaker who with his brothers founded the movie studio that produced the first talking picture (1881-1958). 2. someone who gives a warning to others. 
WARP: 1. a shape distorted by twisting or folding. 2. a moral or mental distortion. 3. yarn arranged lengthways on a loom and crossed by the woof. 
WARPED: used especially of timbers or boards; bent out of shape usually by moisture
WARREN: 1. United States writer and poet (1905-1989). 2. United States jurist who served as chief justice of the United States Supreme Court (1891-1974). 3. a series of connected underground tunnels occupied by rabbits. 4. an overcrowded residential area. 5. a colony of rabbits. 
WART: 1. any small rounded protuberance (as on certain plants or animals). 2. an imperfection in someone or something that is suggestive of a wart (especially in smallness or unattractiveness). 3. (pathology) a firm abnormal elevated blemish on the skin; caused by a virus. 
WASABI: 1. a Japanese plant of the family Cruciferae with a thick green root. 2. the thick green root of the wasabi plant that the Japanese use in cooking and that tastes like strong horseradish; in powder or paste form it is often eaten with raw fish. 
WASH: 1. clean with some chemical process. 2. cleanse (one's body) with soap and water. 3. cleanse with a cleaning agent, such as soap, and water. 4. admit to testing or proof. 5. apply a thin coating of paint, metal, etc., to. 6. move by or as if by water. 7. be capable of being washed. 8. separate dirt or gravel from (precious minerals). 9. remove by the application of water or other liquid and soap or some other cleaning agent. 10. form by erosion. 11. to cleanse (itself or another animal) by licking. 
WASHED: 1. clean by virtue of having been washed in water. 2. wet as from washing; sometimes used in combination. 
WASHER: 1. someone who washes things for a living. 2. seal consisting of a flat disk placed to prevent leakage. 3. a home appliance for washing clothes and linens automatically. 
WASHUP: the act of washing yourself (or another person)
WASP: 1. a white person of Anglo-Saxon ancestry who belongs to a Protestant denomination. 2. social or solitary hymenopterans typically having a slender body with the abdomen attached by a narrow stalk and having a formidable sting. 
WASTE: 1. spend thoughtlessly; throw away. 2. use inefficiently or inappropriately. 3. (law) reduction in the value of an estate caused by act or neglect. 4. get rid of. 5. run off as waste. 6. cause to grow thin or weak. 7. become physically weaker. 
WATCH: 1. look attentively. 2. follow with the eyes or the mind. 3. see or watch. 4. observe with attention. 5. be vigilant, be on the lookout or be careful. 6. observe or determine by looking. 
WATER: 1. supply with water, as with channels or ditches or streams. 2. secrete or form water, as tears or saliva. 3. a liquid necessary for the life of most animals and plants. 4. provide with water. 5. fill with tears. 
WATERY: 1. filled with water. 2. relating to or resembling or consisting of water. 3. overly diluted; thin and insipid. 
WATS: a telephone line; long distance service at fixed rates for fixed zones; an acronym for wide area telephone service
WATT: 1. a unit of power equal to 1 joule per second; the power dissipated by a current of 1 ampere flowing across a resistance of 1 ohm. 2. Scottish engineer and inventor whose improvements in the steam engine led to its wide use in industry (1736-1819). 
WATTLE: 1. build of or with wattle. 2. interlace to form wattle. 3. any of various Australasian trees yielding slender poles suitable for wattle. 
WATTS: English poet and theologian (1674-1748)
WAUGH: English author of satirical novels (1903-1966)
WAUSAU: a town in north central Wisconsin
WAVE: 1. one of a series of ridges that moves across the surface of a liquid (especially across a large body of water). 2. a movement like that of a sudden occurrence or increase in a specified phenomenon. 3. (physics) a movement up and down or back and forth. 4. something that rises rapidly. 5. set waves in. 6. a hairdo that creates undulations in the hair. 7. an undulating curve. 8. a persistent and widespread unusual weather condition (especially of unusual temperatures). 9. a member of the women's reserve of the United States Navy; originally organized during World War II but now no longer a separate branch. 
WAVELL: British field marshal in North Africa in World War II; he defeated the Italians before being defeated by the Germans (1883-1950)
WAVER: 1. someone who communicates by waving. 2. the act of moving back and forth. 3. sway to and fro. 
WAX: 1. cover with wax. 2. go up or advance. 3. increase in phase. 
WAXED: treated with wax
WAXEN: 1. made of or covered with wax. 2. having the paleness of wax. 
WAXING: 1. (of the moon) pertaining to the period during which the visible surface of the moon increases. 2. a gradual increase in magnitude or extent. 
WEAK: 1. wanting in physical strength. 2. tending downward in price. 3. deficient or lacking in some skill. 4. (used of verbs) having standard (or regular) inflection. 5. not having authority, political strength, or governing power. 6. likely to fail under stress or pressure. 7. deficient in intelligence or mental power. 
WEAKEN: 1. lessen the strength of. 2. become weaker. 
WEAKLY: in a weak or feeble manner or to a minor degree
WEALD: an area of open or forested country
WEALTH: 1. the state of being rich and affluent; having a plentiful supply of material goods and money. 2. the quality of profuse abundance. 3. an abundance of material possessions and resources. 4. property that has economic utility: a monetary value or an exchange value. 
WEAN: 1. gradually deprive (infants and young mammals) of mother's milk. 2. detach the affections of. 
WEANED: freed of dependence on something especially (for mammals) mother's milk
WEAPON: 1. any instrument or instrumentality used in fighting or hunting. 2. a means of persuading or arguing. 
WEAR: 1. be dressed in. 2. have in one's aspect; wear an expression of one's attitude or personality. 3. have on one's person. 4. deteriorate through use or stress. 5. have or show an appearance of. 6. last and be usable. 7. put clothing on one's body. 
WEARER: a person who wears or carries or displays something as a body covering or accessory
WEASEL: 1. a person who is regarded as treacherous or sneaky. 2. small carnivorous mammal with short legs and elongated body and neck. 
WEAVE: 1. interlace by or as if by weaving. 2. create a piece of cloth by interlacing strands of fabric, such as wool or cotton. 3. to move or cause to move in a sinuous, spiral, or circular course. 
WEAVER: 1. a craftsman who weaves cloth. 2. finch-like African and Asian colonial birds noted for their elaborately woven nests. 
WEB: 1. construct or form a web, as if by weaving. 2. an intricate trap that entangles or ensnares its victim. 3. a fabric (especially a fabric in the process of being woven). 4. membrane connecting the toes of some aquatic birds and mammals. 
WEBB: 1. English writer and a central member of the Fabian Society (1858-1943). 2. English sociologist and economist and a central member of the Fabian Society (1859-1947). 
WEBBED: (of the feet of some animals) having the digits connected by a thin fold of skin
WED: having been taken in marriage
WEDEL: ski, alternating directions
WEDGE: 1. any shape that is triangular in cross section. 2. (golf) an iron with considerable loft and a broad sole. 3. something solid that is usable as an inclined plane (shaped like a V) that can be pushed between two things to separate them. 4. squeeze like a wedge into a tight space. 
WEDGIE: a shoe with a wedge heel
WEE: 1. a short time. 2. very early. 
WEED: 1. clear of weeds. 2. a black band worn by a man (on the arm or hat) as a sign of mourning. 
WEEDER: 1. a farmhand hired to remove weeds. 2. a hand tool for removing weeds. 
WEEDY: abounding with or resembling weeds
WEEDS: a black garment (dress) worn by a widow as a sign of mourning
WEEK: 1. any period of seven consecutive days. 2. a period of seven consecutive days starting on Sunday. 
WEEKLY: of or occurring every seven days
WEEPER: 1. a person who weeps. 2. a hired mourner. 
WEEPY: liable to weep easily
WEEVIL: any of several families of mostly small beetles that feed on plants and plant products; especially snout beetles and seed beetles
WEI: any of several imperial dynasties of China ruling from 220 to 265 and from 386 to 556
WEIGH: 1. have a certain weight. 2. determine the weight of. 3. to be oppressive or burdensome. 
WEIGHT: 1. the vertical force exerted by a mass as a result of gravity. 2. sports equipment used in calisthenic exercises and weightlifting; it is not attached to anything and is raised and lowered by use of the hands and arms. 3. the relative importance granted to something. 4. an artifact that is heavy. 5. an oppressive feeling of heavy force. 6. (statistics) a coefficient assigned to elements of a frequency distribution in order to represent their relative importance. 
WEILL: German composer; collaborated with Bertolt Brecht (1900-1950)
WEIMAR: a German city near Leipzig; scene of the adoption in 1919 of the constitution of the Weimar Republic that lasted until 1933
WEIR: 1. a low dam built across a stream to raise its level or divert its flow. 2. a fence or wattle built across a stream to catch or retain fish. 
WEIRD: strikingly odd or unusual; some weird effect of shadow"- Bram Stoker
WEKA: flightless New Zealand rail of thievish disposition having short wings each with a spur used in fighting
WELD: 1. unite closely or intimately. 2. a metal joint formed by softening with heat and fusing or hammering together. 3. join together by heating. 
WELDER: joins pieces of metal by welding them together
WELL: 1. (often used as a combining form) in a good or proper or satisfactory manner or to a high standard (`good' is a nonstandard dialectal variant for `well'). 2. thoroughly or completely; fully; often used as a combining form. 3. indicating high probability; in all likelihood. 4. (used for emphasis or as an intensifier) entirely or fully. 5. to a suitable or appropriate extent or degree. 6. favorably; with approval. 7. to a great extent or degree. 8. with great or especially intimate knowledge. 9. with prudence or propriety. 10. with skill or in a pleasing manner. 11. in a manner affording benefit or advantage. 12. in financial comfort. 13. without unusual distress or resentment; with good humor. 
WELLS: prolific English writer best known for his science-fiction novels; he also wrote on contemporary social problems and wrote popular accounts of history and science (1866-1946)
WELSH: 1. a Celtic language of Wales. 2. a breed of dual-purpose cattle developed in Wales. 3. of or relating to or characteristic of Wales or its people or their language. 
WELT: put a welt on
WELTER: 1. toss, roll, or rise and fall in an uncontrolled way. 2. be immersed in. 
WENCH: frequent prostitutes
WEND: direct one's course or way
WESER: a river in northwestern Germany that flows northward to the North Sea near Bremerhaven
WESLEY: 1. English clergyman and brother of John Wesley who wrote many hymns (1707-1788). 2. English clergyman and founder of Methodism (1703-1791). 
WESSEX: a Saxon kingdom in southwestern England that became the most powerful English kingdom by the 10th century
WEST: 1. to, toward, or in the west. 2. the cardinal compass point that is a 270 degrees. 3. the region of the United States lying to the west of the Mississippi River. 4. the direction corresponding to the westward cardinal compass point. 5. British writer (born in Ireland) (1892-1983). 6. United States film actress (1892-1980). 7. English painter (born in America) who became the second president of the Royal Academy (1738-1820). 8. a location in the western part of a country, region, or city. 
WET: 1. covered or soaked with a liquid such as water. 2. containing moisture or volatile components. 3. supporting or permitting the legal production and sale of alcoholic beverages. 4. producing or secreting milk. 5. consisting of or trading in alcoholic liquor. 
WETHER: male sheep especially a castrated one
WETTER: a workman who wets the work in a manufacturing process
WHACK: hit hard
WHALE: 1. any of the larger cetacean mammals having a streamlined body and breathing through a blowhole on the head. 2. hunt for whales. 
WHALER: 1. a seaman who works on a ship that hunts whales. 2. a ship engaged in whale fishing. 
WHAMMY: a serious or devastating setback
WHANG: 1. beat with force. 2. propel or hit with force. 3. attack forcefully. 
WHARF: 1. provide with a wharf. 2. store on a wharf. 3. discharge at a wharf. 4. moor at a wharf. 
WHEAT: 1. annual or biennial grass having erect flower spikes and light brown grains. 2. grains of common wheat; sometimes cooked whole or cracked as cereal; usually ground into flour. 
WHEEL: 1. change directions as if revolving on a pivot. 2. move along on or as if on wheels or a wheeled vehicle. 3. a circular helm to control the rudder of a vessel. 4. wheel somebody or something. 
WHEEZE: 1. breathe with difficulty. 2. (Briticism) a clever or amusing scheme or trick. 
WHEY: 1. the serum or watery part of milk that is separated from the curd in making cheese. 2. watery part of milk produced when raw milk sours and coagulates. 
WHELK: 1. gather whelk. 2. large carnivorous marine gastropods of coastal waters and intertidal regions having a strong snail-like shell. 
WHELP: birth
WHENCE: from what place, source, or cause
WHERRY: 1. sailing barge used especially in East Anglia. 2. light rowboat for use in racing or for transporting goods and passengers in inland waters and harbors. 
WHET: 1. make keen or more acute. 2. sharpen by rubbing, as on a whetstone. 
WHY: the cause or intention underlying an action or situation, especially in the phrase `the whys and wherefores'
WHYDAH: mostly black African weaverbird
WHIFF: 1. drive or carry as if by a puff of air. 2. strike out by swinging and missing the pitch charged as the third. 3. utter with a puff of air. 
WHIG: 1. a member of the political party that urged social reform in 18th and 19th century England; was the opposition party to the Tories. 2. a supporter of the American Revolution. 3. a member of the Whig Party that existed in the United States before the American Civil War. 
WHILE: a period of indeterminate length (usually short) marked by some action or condition
WHINE: 1. move with a whining sound. 2. make a high-pitched, screeching noise. 3. complain whiningly. 
WHINER: a person given to excessive complaints and crying and whining
WHIP: 1. an instrument with a handle and a flexible lash that is used for whipping. 2. a legislator appointed by the party to enforce discipline. 3. thrash about flexibly in the manner of a whiplash. 4. strike as if by whipping. 5. a quick blow delivered with a whip or whiplike object. 
WHIR: sound of something in rapid motion
WHIRL: 1. confused movement. 2. cause to spin. 3. fly around. 
WHISH: 1. make a sibilant sound. 2. move with a whishing sound. 
WHISK: 1. move somewhere quickly. 2. move quickly and nimbly. 3. brush or wipe off lightly. 4. whip with or as if with a wire whisk. 
WHIST: a card game for four players who form two partnerships; a pack of 52 cards is dealt and each side scores one point for each trick it takes in excess of six
WHITE: 1. being of the achromatic color of maximum lightness; having little or no hue owing to reflection of almost all incident light. 2. of or belonging to a racial group having light skin coloration. 3. free from moral blemish or impurity; unsullied. 4. marked by the presence of snow. 5. restricted to whites only. 6. glowing white with heat. 7. benevolent; without malicious intent. 8. United States educator who in 1865 (with Ezra Cornell) founded Cornell University and served as its first president (1832-1918). 9. (of coffee) having cream or milk added. 10. (board games) the lighter pieces. 11. (of hair) having lost its color. 12. of summer nights in northern latitudes where the sun barely sets. 
WHITEY: (slang) offensive names for a White man
WHITEN: turn white
WHIZ: a buzzing or hissing sound as of something traveling rapidly through the air
WHIZZ: make a soft swishing sound
WHOLE: 1. including all components without exception; being one unit or constituting the full amount or extent or duration; complete. 2. (of siblings) having the same parents. 
WHOLLY: to a complete degree or to the full or entire extent (`whole' is often used informally for `wholly')
WHOMP: beat overwhelmingly
WHOOP: shout, as if with joy or enthusiasm
WHOOSH: gush or squirt out
WHORE: 1. work as a prostitute. 2. have unlawful sex with a whore. 3. compromise oneself for money or other gains. 
WYATT: 1. English architect (1746-1813). 2. English poet who introduced the sonnet form to English literature (1503-1542). 
WICCA: 1. a community of followers of the Wicca religion. 2. the polytheistic nature religion of modern witchcraft whose central deity is a mother goddess; claims origins in pre-Christian pagan religions of western Europe. 
WICK: 1. any piece of cord that conveys liquid by capillary action. 2. a loosely woven cord (in a candle or oil lamp) that draws fuel by capillary action up into the flame. 
WICKED: morally bad in principle or practice
WICKER: 1. slender flexible branches or twigs (especially of willow or some canes); used for wickerwork. 2. work made of interlaced slender branches (especially willow branches). 
WICKET: 1. cricket equipment consisting of a set of three stumps topped by crosspieces; used in playing cricket. 2. a small arch used as croquet equipment. 3. small gate or door (especially one that is part of a larger door). 4. small opening (like a window in a door) through which business can be transacted. 
WIDE: 1. with or by a broad space. 2. great in degree. 3. having ample fabric. 4. not on target. 5. to the fullest extent possible. 6. far from the intended target. 7. to or over a great extent or range; far. 
WIDELY: 1. to a great degree. 2. so as to leave much space or distance between. 
WIDEN: 1. become broader or wider or more extensive. 2. make wider. 3. extend in scope or range or area. 
WIDOW: cause to be without a spouse
WIDTH: the extent of something from side to side
WIELD: 1. have and exercise. 2. handle effectively. 
WIELDY: easy to handle or use or manage
WIFE: a married woman; a man's partner in marriage
WIFELY: befitting or characteristic of a wife
WIG: 1. hairpiece covering the head and made of real or synthetic hair. 2. British slang for a scolding. 
WIGGED: wearing a wig
WIGGLE: the act of wiggling
WIGGLY: moving in a twisting or snake-like or wormlike fashion
WIGHT: an isle and county of southern England in the English Channel
WIGWAG: 1. send a signal by waving a flag or a light according to a certain code. 2. signal by or as if by a flag or light waved according to a code. 
WIGWAM: a Native American lodge frequently having an oval shape and covered with bark or hides
WILD: 1. marked by extreme lack of restraint or control. 2. in a wild or undomesticated manner. 3. in a state of extreme emotion. 4. deviating widely from an intended course. 
WILDE: Irish writer and wit (1854-1900)
WILDLY: 1. to an extreme or greatly exaggerated degree. 2. in an uncontrolled or unrestrained manner. 3. with violent and uncontrollable passion. 
WILL: 1. determine by choice. 2. a legal document declaring a person's wishes regarding the disposal of their property when they die. 3. decree or ordain. 
WILLET: large North American shorebird of eastern and Gulf Coasts
WILLIS: English physician who was a pioneer in the study of the brain (1621-1675)
WILLOW: 1. any of numerous deciduous trees and shrubs of the genus Salix. 2. a textile machine having a system of revolving spikes for opening and cleaning raw textile fibers. 
WILT: 1. lose strength. 2. become limp. 
WILTON: a carpet woven on a Jacquard loom with loops like a Brussels carpet but having the loops cut to form a close velvety pile
WIMP: a person who lacks confidence, is irresolute and wishy-washy
WIMPLE: headdress of cloth; worn over the head and around the neck and ears by medieval women
WIN: be the winner in a contest or competition; be victorious
WINCE: 1. the facial expression of sudden pain. 2. make a face indicating disgust or dislike. 
WINCEY: a plain or twilled fabric of wool and cotton used especially for warm shirts or skirts and pajamas
WINCH: pull or lift up with or as if with a winch
WIND: 1. air moving (sometimes with considerable force) from an area of high pressure to an area of low pressure. 2. extend in curves and turns. 3. arrange or or coil around. 4. empty rhetoric or insincere or exaggerated talk. 5. the act of winding or twisting. 6. coil the spring of (some mechanical device) by turning a stem. 
WINDER: 1. a worker who winds (e.g., a winch or clock or other mechanism). 2. mechanical device used to wind another device that is driven by a spring (as a clock). 3. mechanical device around which something can be wound. 
WINDY: resembling the wind in speed, force, or variability
WINDOW: 1. a framework of wood or metal that contains a glass windowpane and is built into a wall or roof to admit light or air. 2. a transparent opening in a vehicle that allow vision out of the sides or back; usually is capable of being opened. 3. a transparent panel (as of an envelope) inserted in an otherwise opaque material. 4. an opening that resembles a window in appearance or function. 5. the time period that is considered best for starting or finishing something. 6. an opening in a wall or screen that admits light and air and through which customers can be served. 7. (computer science) a rectangular part of a computer screen that contains a display different from the rest of the screen. 
WINDUP: operated by a mechanism
WINE: 1. drink wine. 2. treat to wine. 
WINERY: distillery where wine is made
WING: 1. a movable organ for flying (one of a pair). 2. one of the horizontal airfoils on either side of the fuselage of an airplane. 3. a stage area out of sight of the audience. 4. a unit of military aircraft. 5. a hockey player stationed in a forward position on either side. 6. (in flight formation) a position to the side and just to the rear of another aircraft. 7. a group within a political party or legislature or other organization that holds distinct views or has a particular function. 8. the wing of a fowl. 
WINGED: 1. having wings or as if having wings of a specified kind; . 2. very fast; as if with wings. 
WINGER: (sports) player in wing position
WINGS: 1. a means of flight or ascent. 2. stylized bird wings worn as an insignia by qualified pilots or air crew members. 
WINY: having the taste of wine
WINK: 1. closing one eye quickly as a signal. 2. signal by winking. 3. force to go away by blinking. 
WINKER: 1. a person who winks. 2. blind consisting of a leather eyepatch sewn to the side of the halter that prevents a horse from seeing something on either side. 
WINKLE: remove or displace from a position
WINNER: 1. the contestant who wins the contest. 2. a gambler who wins a bet. 
WINNOW: 1. separate the chaff from by using air currents. 2. blow on. 3. blow away or off with a current of air. 
WINTER: spend the winter
WINTRY: characteristic of or occurring in winter
WINTUN: 1. a member of a North American Indian people living in the Sacramento valley in California. 2. a Copehan language spoken by the Wintun. 
WIPE: rub with a circular motion
WIPER: 1. a worker who wipes. 2. contact consisting of a conducting arm that rotates over a series of fixed contacts and comes to rest on an outlet. 
WYRD: fate personified; any one of the three Weird Sisters
WIRE: 1. provide with electrical circuits. 2. a metal conductor that carries electricity over a distance. 3. fasten with wire. 4. string on a wire. 
WIRED: 1. equipped with wire or wires especially for electric or telephone service. 2. tied or bound with wire. 
WIRER: someone who sends a telegram
WIRY: 1. of or relating to wire. 2. of hair that resembles wire in stiffness. 
WIRING: 1. a circuit of wires for the distribution of electricity. 2. the work of installing the wires for an electrical system or device. 
WISDOM: 1. accumulated knowledge or erudition or enlightenment. 2. the trait of utilizing knowledge and experience with common sense and insight. 3. ability to apply knowledge or experience or understanding or common sense and insight. 4. the quality of being prudent and sensible. 
WISE: 1. having or prompted by wisdom or discernment. 2. United States Jewish leader (born in Hungary) (1874-1949). 3. United States religious leader (born in Bohemia) who united reform Jewish organizations in the United States (1819-1900). 
WISELY: in a wise manner
WISENT: European bison having a smaller and higher head than the North American bison
WISH: 1. hope for; have a wish. 2. prefer or wish to do something. 3. feel or express a desire or hope concerning the future or fortune of. 4. make or express a wish. 5. order politely; express a wish for. 6. invoke upon. 
WISP: 1. a small tuft or lock. 2. a small person. 3. a small bundle of straw or hay. 4. a flock of snipe. 
WIT: a message whose ingenuity or verbal skill or incongruity has the power to evoke laughter
WITCH: a being (usually female) imagined to have special powers derived from the devil
WITHAL: together with this
WITHE: 1. band or rope made of twisted twigs or stems. 2. strong flexible twig. 
WITS: the basic human power of intelligent thought and perception
WITTY: combining clever conception and facetious expression
WITTOL: an archaic term for a cuckold who knows about his wife's infidelity but tolerates it
WIVE: 1. take (someone) as a wife. 2. marry a woman, take a wife. 3. provide with a wife; marry (someone) to a wife. 
WYVERN: a fire-breathing dragon used in medieval heraldry; had the head of a dragon and the tail of a snake and a body with wings and two legs
WOAD: 1. a blue dyestuff obtained from the woad plant. 2. any of several herbs of the genus Isatis. 
WOBBLE: move unsteadily
WOBBLY: a member of the Industrial Workers of the World
WODEN: chief god; counterpart of Norse Odin and Teutonic Wotan
WOE: intense mournfulness
WOG: (offensive British slang) term used by the British to refer to people of color from Africa or Asia
WOK: pan with a convex bottom; used for frying in Chinese cooking
WOLD: a tract of open rolling country (especially upland)
WOLF: 1. eat hastily. 2. Austrian composer (1860-1903). 3. German classical scholar who claimed that the Iliad and Odyssey were composed by several authors (1759-1824). 4. a man who is aggressive in making amorous advances to women. 
WOLOF: the West African language of the Wolof in Senegal; related to Fula
WOMAN: 1. an adult female person (as opposed to a man). 2. a female person who plays a significant role (wife or mistress or girlfriend) in the life of a particular man. 
WOMBAT: burrowing herbivorous Australian marsupials about the size of a badger
WON: not subject to defeat
WONDER: 1. have a wish or desire to know something. 2. place in doubt or express doubtful speculation. 3. be amazed at. 
WOO: 1. seek someone's favor. 2. make amorous advances towards. 
WOOD: 1. the hard fibrous lignified substance under the bark of trees. 2. United States film actress (1938-1981). 3. English conductor (1869-1944). 4. English writer of novels about murders and thefts and forgeries (1814-1887). 5. United States painter noted for works based on life in the Midwest (1892-1942). 6. a golf club with a long shaft used to hit long shots; originally made with a wooden head. 
WOODED: covered with growing trees and bushes etc
WOODEN: 1. made or consisting of (entirely or in part) or employing wood. 2. lacking ease or grace. 
WOODY: 1. made of or containing or resembling wood. 2. made hard like wood as the result of the deposition of lignin in the cell walls. 
WOODSY: characteristic or suggestive of woods
WOOF: the yarn woven across the warp yarn in weaving
WOOFER: a loudspeaker that reproduces lower audio frequency sounds
WOOL: 1. a fabric made from the hair of sheep. 2. fiber sheared from animals (such as sheep) and twisted into yarn for weaving. 3. outer coat of especially sheep and yaks. 
WOOLEN: of or related to or made of wool
WOOLF: English author whose work used such techniques as stream of consciousness and the interior monologue; prominent member of the Bloomsbury Group (1882-1941)
WOOLY: covered with dense often matted or curly hairs
WOOSH: move with a sibilant sound
WOP: (ethnic slur) offensive term for a person of Italian descent
WORD: 1. a unit of language that native speakers can identify. 2. a brief statement. 3. a verbal command for action. 4. a word is a string of bits stored in computer memory. 
WORDS: 1. the words that are spoken. 2. language that is spoken or written. 
WORK: 1. exert oneself by doing mental or physical work for a purpose or out of necessity. 2. be employed. 3. shape, form, or improve a material. 4. have an effect or outcome; often the one desired or expected. 5. operate in a certain place, area, or specialty. 6. proceed towards a goal or along a path or through an activity. 7. move in an agitated manner. 8. cause to work. 9. behave in a certain way when handled. 10. operate in or through. 11. cause to operate or function. 12. provoke or excite. 13. gratify and charm, usually in order to influence. 14. move into or onto. 15. arrive at a certain condition through repeated motion. 
WORKER: 1. a person who works at a specific occupation. 2. sterile member of a colony of social insects that forages for food and cares for the larvae. 
WORKS: 1. performance of moral or religious acts. 2. the internal mechanism of a device. 
WORLD: 1. people in general; especially a distinctive group of people with some shared interest. 2. all of your experiences that determine how things appear to you. 3. a part of the earth that can be considered separately. 4. all of the living human inhabitants of the earth. 
WORM: 1. any of numerous relatively small elongated soft-bodied animals especially of the phyla Annelida and Chaetognatha and Nematoda and Nemertea and Platyhelminthes; also many insect larvae. 2. a person who has a nasty or unethical character undeserving of respect. 3. a software program capable of reproducing itself that can spread from one computer to the next over a network. 4. screw thread on a gear with the teeth of a worm wheel or rack. 
WORN: affected by wear; damaged by long use
WORRY: 1. be concerned with. 2. be worried, concerned, anxious, troubled, or uneasy. 3. disturb the peace of mind of; afflict with mental agitation or distress. 4. lacerate by biting. 5. touch or rub constantly. 
WORSE: 1. (comparative of `ill') in a less effective or successful or desirable manner. 2. changed for the worse in health or fitness. 
WORSEN: 1. grow worse. 2. make worse. 
WORST: 1. to the highest degree of inferiority or badness. 2. the greatest damage or wickedness of which one is capable. 3. the weakest effort or poorest achievement one is capable of. 
WORT: 1. usually used in combination: `liverwort'; `milkwort'; `whorlywort'. 2. unfermented or fermenting malt. 
WORTH: 1. an indefinite quantity of something having a specified value. 2. having a specified value. 3. French couturier (born in England) regarded as the founder of Parisian haute couture; noted for introducing the bustle (1825-1895). 
WORTHY: 1. having worth or merit or value; being honorable or admirable. 2. having qualities or abilities that merit recognition in some way. 
WOTAN: supreme Teutonic god; counterpart of Norse Odin and Anglo-Saxon Woden
WOUND: 1. put in a coil. 2. a casualty to military personnel resulting from combat. 3. a figurative injury (to your feelings or pride). 4. the act of inflicting a wound. 
WOVEN: made or constructed by interlacing threads or strips of material or other elements into a whole
WOW: impress greatly
WRACK: 1. dried seaweed especially that cast ashore. 2. the destruction or collapse of something. 
WRAP: 1. arrange or fold as a cover or protection. 2. a sandwich in which the filling is rolled up in a soft tortilla. 3. crash into so as to coil around. 
WRASSE: chiefly tropical marine fishes with fleshy lips and powerful teeth; usually brightly colored
WRATH: 1. intense anger (usually on an epic scale). 2. belligerence aroused by a real or supposed wrong (personified as one of the deadly sins). 
WREATH: flower arrangement consisting of a circular band of foliage or flowers for ornamental purposes
WRECK: 1. something or someone that has suffered ruin or dilapidation. 2. a ship that has been destroyed at sea. 
WREN: 1. English architect who designed more than fifty London churches (1632-1723). 2. any of several small active brown birds of the northern hemisphere with short upright tails; they feed on insects. 
WRENCH: 1. twist or pull violently or suddenly, especially so as to remove (something) from that to which it is attached or from where it originates. 2. a hand tool that is used to hold or twist a nut or bolt. 3. make a sudden twisting motion. 
WREST: obtain by seizing forcibly or violently, also metaphorically
WRETCH: performs some wicked deed
WRY: bent to one side
WRIGHT: 1. United States writer of detective novels (1888-1939). 2. United States writer whose work is concerned with the oppression of African Americans (1908-1960). 3. United States aviation pioneer who (with his brother Orville Wright) invented the airplane (1867-1912). 4. United States aviation pioneer who (with his brother Wilbur Wright) invented the airplane (1871-1948). 5. influential United States architect (1869-1959). 6. United States early feminist (born in Scotland) (1795-1852). 7. someone who makes or repairs something (usually used in combination). 
WRYLY: in a wry manner
WRING: 1. twist and compress, as if in pain or anguish. 2. twist, squeeze, or compress in order to extract liquid. 
WRIST: a joint between the distal end of the radius and the proximal row of carpal bones
WRIT: (law) a legal document issued by a court or judicial officer
WRITE: 1. produce a literary work. 2. communicate or express by writing. 3. communicate (with) in writing. 4. communicate by letter. 5. mark or trace on a surface. 6. record data on a computer. 7. create code, write a computer program. 
WRITER: 1. writes (books or stories or articles or the like) professionally (for pay). 2. a person who is able to write and has written something. 
WRITHE: to move in a twisting or contorted motion, (especially when struggling)
WRONG: 1. treat unjustly; do wrong to. 2. contrary to conscience or morality or law. 3. based on or acting or judging in error. 4. not in accord with established usage or procedure. 5. used of the side of cloth or clothing intended to face inward. 
WUHAN: a city of central China on the Chang Jiang; the commercial and industrial center of central China
XAVIER: Spanish missionary and Jesuit who establish missionaries in Japan and Ceylon and the East Indies (1506-1552)
XENON: a colorless odorless inert gaseous element occurring in the earth's atmosphere in trace amounts
XERIC: being deficient in moisture
XEROX: 1. a copy made by a xerographic printer. 2. a duplicator (trade mark Xerox) that copies graphic matter by the action of light on an electrically charged photoconductive insulating surface in which the latent image is developed with a resinous powder. 
XHOSA: 1. a member of the Negroid people of southern South Africa. 2. a community of Negroid people in southern South Africa. 3. a Bantu language closely related to Zulu. 
XIAN: a city of central China; capital of ancient Chinese empire 221-206 BC
XYLEM: the woody part of plants: the supporting and water-conducting tissue, consisting primarily of tracheids and vessels
XYLENE: a colorless flammable volatile liquid hydrocarbon used as a solvent
XYRIS: chiefly American marsh plants, having usually yellow flowers
YACCA: West Indian evergreen with medium to long leaves
YACHT: travel in a yacht
YACK: talk incessantly and tiresomely
YAGI: a sharply directional antenna
YAHOO: 1. one of a race of brutes resembling men but subject to the Houyhnhnms in a novel by Jonathan Swift. 2. a widely used search engine for the web that finds information, news, images, products, finance. 
YAHWEH: a name for the God of the Old Testament as transliterated from the Hebrew consonants YHVH
YAK: 1. talk profusely. 2. large long-haired wild ox of Tibet often domesticated. 
YAKIMA: a town in south central Washington
YAKUT: 1. a member of a Turkic people of northeastern Siberia (mainly in the Lena river basin). 2. the Turkic language spoken by the Yakut. 
YALE: English philanthropist who made contributions to a college in Connecticut that was renamed in his honor (1649-1721)
YALTA: a resort city in Crimea in the southern Ukraine on the Black Sea; site of the Allied conference between Roosevelt, Stalin, and Churchill in February 1945
YALU: river in eastern Asia; rises in North Korea and flows southwest to Korea Bay (forming part of the border between North Korea and China)
YAM: 1. edible tuber of any of several yams. 2. any of a number of tropical vines of the genus Dioscorea many having edible tuberous roots. 3. sweet potato with deep orange flesh that remains moist when baked. 4. edible tuberous root of various yam plants of the genus Dioscorea grown in the tropics world-wide for food. 
YAMA: Hindu god of death and lord of the underworld
YAMANI: Saudi Arabian minister of petroleum who was a central figure in the creation of OPEC (born in 1930)
YANA: 1. a member of an extinct North American Indian people who lived in northern California. 2. the Yanan language spoken by the Yana. 
YANAN: a language group of the Hokan family
YANG: the bright positive masculine principle in Chinese dualistic cosmology
YANK: pull, or move with a sudden movement
YANKEE: 1. used by Southerners for an inhabitant of a northern state in the United States (especially a Union soldier). 2. an American (especially to non-Americans). 
YANKER: someone who gives a strong sudden pull
YARD: 1. a unit of length equal to 3 feet; defined as 91.44 centimeters; originally taken to be the average length of a stride. 2. the enclosed land around a house or other building. 3. a tract of land enclosed for particular activities (sometimes paved and usually associated with buildings). 4. a tract of land where logs are accumulated. 5. an area having a network of railway tracks and sidings for storage and maintenance of cars and engines. 6. a long horizontal spar tapered at the end and used to support and spread a square sail or lateen. 7. an enclosure for animals (as chicken or livestock). 
YARDER: 1. (used only in combinations) the height or length of something in yards. 2. a winch (or system of winches) powered by an engine and used to haul logs from a stump to a landing or to a skid road. 
YARN: tell or spin a yarn
YARROW: ubiquitous strong-scented mat-forming Eurasian herb of wasteland, hedgerow or pasture having narrow serrate leaves and small usually white florets; widely naturalized in North America
YAUTIA: tropical American aroid having edible tubers that are cooked and eaten like yams or potatoes
YAW: 1. an erratic deflection from an intended course. 2. deviate erratically from a set course. 3. swerve off course momentarily. 
YAWL: 1. a ship's small boat (usually rowed by 4 or 6 oars). 2. a sailing vessel with two masts; a small mizzen is aft of the rudderpost. 
YAWN: utter a yawn, as from lack of oxygen or when one is tired
YAWNER: a person who yawns
YAWP: make a raucous noise
YAWS: an infectious tropical disease resembling syphilis in its early stages; marked by red skin eruptions and ulcerating lesions
YAZOO: a river that rises in west central Mississippi and flows southwest to empty into the Mississippi River above Vicksburg
YEAR: 1. a period of time containing 365 (or 366) days. 2. a period of time occupying a regular part of a calendar year that is used for some particular activity. 3. the period of time that it takes for a planet (as, e.g., Earth or Mars) to make a complete revolution around the sun. 
YEARN: have affection for; feel tenderness for
YEAST: 1. a commercial leavening agent containing yeast cells; used to raise the dough in making bread and for fermenting beer or whiskey. 2. any of various single-celled fungi that reproduce asexually by budding or division. 
YEASTY: 1. of or resembling or containing yeast. 2. exuberantly creative. 
YELL: utter or declare in a very loud voice
YELLOW: 1. of the color intermediate between green and orange in the color spectrum; of something resembling the color of an egg yolk. 2. changed to a yellowish color by age. 3. cowardly or treacherous. 
YELP: bark in a high-pitched tone
YEMEN: a republic on the southwestern shores of the Arabian Peninsula on the Indian Ocean; formed in 1990
YEMENI: of or relating to or characteristic of Yemen or its inhabitants
YEN: the basic unit of money in Japan; equal to 100 sen
YENTA: 1. (Yiddish) a vulgar shrew; a shallow coarse termagant. 2. (Yiddish) a woman who talks too much; a gossip unable to keep a secret; a woman who spreads rumors and scandal. 
YEOMAN: 1. officer in the (ceremonial) bodyguard of the British monarch. 2. in former times was free and cultivated his own land. 
YET: 1. up to the present time. 2. within an indefinite time or at an unspecified future time. 
YEW: 1. wood of a yew; especially the durable fine-grained light brown or red wood of the English yew valued for cabinetwork and archery bows. 2. any of numerous evergreen trees or shrubs having red cup-shaped berries and flattened needlelike leaves. 
YIELD: 1. an amount of a product. 2. be the cause or source of. 3. give in, as to influence or pressure. 4. bring in. 5. cease opposition; stop fighting. 6. consent reluctantly. 
YIN: the dark negative feminine principle in Chinese dualistic cosmology
YIP: a sharp high-pitched cry (especially by a dog)
YIPS: nervous tension that causes an athlete to fail (especially causes golfers to miss short putts)
YLEM: (cosmology) the original matter that (according to the big bang theory) existed before the formation of the chemical elements
YMIR: (Norse mythology) the primeval giant slain by Odin and his brothers and from whose body they created the world: the sea from his blood; the earth from his flesh; the mountains from his bones; the sky from his skull
YODEL: sing by changing register; sing by yodeling
YOGA: 1. Hindu discipline aimed at training the consciousness for a state of perfect spiritual insight and tranquility that is achieved through the three paths of actions and knowledge and devotion. 2. a system of exercises practiced as part of the Hindu discipline to promote control of the body and mind. 
YOGI: one who practices yoga and has achieved a high level of spiritual insight
YOGURT: a custard-like food made from curdled milk
YO-YO: a toy consisting of a spool that is reeled up and down on a string by motions of the hand
YOKE: 1. become joined or linked together. 2. link with or as with a yoke. 3. a pair of draft animals joined by a yoke. 4. support consisting of a wooden frame across the shoulders that enables a person to carry buckets hanging from each end. 5. a connection (like a clamp or vise) between two things so they move together. 6. stable gear that joins two draft animals at the neck so they can work together as a team. 7. put a yoke on or join with a yoke. 
YOKEL: a person who is not very intelligent or interested in culture
YOKUTS: a member of the North American Indian people of the San Joaquin Valley
YOLK: nutritive material of an ovum stored for the nutrition of an embryo (especially the yellow mass of a bird or reptile egg)
YONDER: at or in an indicated (usually distant) place (`yon' is archaic and dialectal)
YORE: time long past
YORK: the English royal house (a branch of the Plantagenet line) that reigned from 1461 to 1485; its emblem was a white rose
YORUBA: 1. a member of a West African people living chiefly in southwestern Nigeria. 2. a Kwa language spoken by the Yoruba in southwestern Nigeria. 
YOUNG: 1. (used of living things especially persons) in an early period of life or development or growth. 2. United States film and television actress (1913-2000). 3. United States civil rights leader (1921-1971). 4. being in its early stage. 5. United States jazz tenor saxophonist (1909-1959). 6. English poet (1683-1765). 7. United States baseball player and famous pitcher (1867-1955). 8. United States religious leader of the Mormon Church after the assassination of Joseph Smith; he led the Mormon exodus from Illinois to Salt Lake City, Utah (1801-1877). 9. young people collectively. 
YOUTH: 1. the time of life between childhood and maturity. 2. early maturity; the state of being young or immature or inexperienced. 3. an early period of development. 4. the freshness and vitality characteristic of a young person. 
YOWL: utter shrieks, as of cats
YPRES: 1. battle in World War I (1917); an Allied offensive which eventually failed because tanks bogged down in the waterlogged soil of Flanders; Germans introduced mustard gas which interfered with the Allied artillery. 2. battle in World War I (1915); Germans wanted to try chlorine (a toxic yellow gas) as a weapon and succeeded in taking considerable territory from the Allied salient. 3. battle in World War I (1914); heavy but indecisive fighting as the Allies and the Germans both tried to break through the lines of the others. 
YQUEM: a sweet white French wine
YUAN: 1. the basic unit of money in China. 2. the imperial dynasty of China from 1279 to 1368. 
YUCCA: any of several evergreen plants of the genus Yucca having usually tall stout stems and a terminal cluster of white flowers; warmer regions of North America
YUKAWA: Japanese mathematical physicist who proposed that nuclear forces are mediated by massive particles called mesons which are analogous to the photon in mediating electromagnetic forces (1907-1981)
YUKON: 1. a North American river that flows westward from the Yukon Territory through central Alaska to the Bering Sea. 2. a territory in northwestern Canada; site of the Klondike gold rush in the 1890s. 
YUMA: 1. a member of the North American Indian people of Arizona and adjacent Mexico and California. 2. a town in southwestern Arizona on the Colorado River and the California border. 3. the Yuman language spoken by the Yuma. 
YUMAN: of or relating to the language or culture of the Yuma people
YUNNAN: a province of southern China
YUPPIE: a young upwardly mobile professional individual; a well-paid middle-class professional who works in a city and has a luxurious life style
YURT: a circular domed dwelling that is portable and self-supporting; originally used by nomadic Mongol and Turkic people of central Asia but now used as inexpensive alternative or temporary housing
ZABRZE: an industrial city in southern Poland
ZAGREB: the capital of Croatia
ZAKAT: the fourth pillar of Islam is almsgiving as an act of worship
ZAMA: the battle in 202 BC in which Scipio decisively defeated Hannibal at the end of the second Punic War
ZAMBIA: a republic in central Africa; formerly controlled by Great Britain and called Northern Rhodesia until it gained independence within the commonwealth in 1964
ZAMIA: any of various cycads of the genus Zamia; among the smallest and most verdant cycads
ZANY: a buffoon in one of the old comedies; imitates others for ludicrous effect
ZAP: 1. strike suddenly and with force. 2. kill with or as if with a burst of gunfire or electric current or as if by shooting. 
ZAPATA: Mexican revolutionary who led a revolt for agrarian reforms (1879-1919)
ZAPPER: an electrical device that can injure or kill by means of electric currents
ZAPUS: type genus of the Zapodidae
ZARF: an ornamental metal cup-shaped holder for a hot coffee cup
ZARIA: a city in north central Nigeria; agricultural trading center
ZEA: corn
ZEAL: excessive fervor to do something or accomplish some end
ZEALOT: a member of an ancient Jewish sect in Judea in the first century who fought to the death against the Romans and who killed or persecuted Jews who collaborated with the Romans
ZEBRA: any of several fleet black-and-white striped African equines
ZEBU: domesticated ox having a humped back and long horns and a large dewlap; used chiefly as a draft animal in India and east Asia
ZEEMAN: Dutch physicist honored for his research on the influence of magnetism on radiation which showed that light is radiated by the motion of charged particles in an atom (1865-1943)
ZEIDAE: a family of fish in the order Zeomorphi
ZEN: 1. school of Mahayana Buddhism asserting that enlightenment can come through meditation and intuition rather than faith; China and Japan. 2. a Buddhist doctrine that enlightenment can be attained through direct intuitive insight. 
ZENITH: the point above the observer that is directly opposite the nadir on the imaginary sphere against which celestial bodies appear to be projected
ZENO: 1. ancient Greek philosopher who formulated paradoxes that defended the belief that motion and change are illusory (circa 495-430 BC). 2. ancient Greek philosopher who founded the Stoic school (circa 335-263 BC). 
ZEPHYR: (Greek mythology) the Greek god of the west wind
ZERO: 1. having no measurable or otherwise determinable value. 2. indicating an initial point or origin. 3. of or relating to the null set (a set with no members). 4. indicating the absence of any or all units under consideration. 
ZEROTH: preceding even the first
ZEST: add herbs or spices to
ZEUGMA: use of a word to govern two or more words though appropriate to only one
ZEUS: 1. (Greek mythology) the supreme god of ancient Greek mythology; son of Rhea and Cronus whom he dethroned; husband and brother of Hera; brother of Poseidon and Hades; father of many gods; counterpart of Roman Jupiter. 2. type genus of the family Zeidae. 
ZHUKOV: Soviet general who during World Warr II directed the counteroffensive at Stalingrad and relieved Leningrad and captured Berlin (1896-1974)
ZYDECO: music of southern Louisiana that combines French dance melodies with Caribbean music and blues
ZYGOMA: the slender arch formed by the temporal process of the cheekbone that bridges to the zygomatic process of the temporal bone
ZYGOTE: (genetics) the diploid cell resulting from the union of a haploid spermatozoon and ovum (including the organism that develops from that cell)
ZIGZAG: in a zigzag course or on a zigzag path
ZILL: one of a pair of small metallic cymbals worn on the thumb and middle finger; used in belly dancing in rhythm with the dance
ZYMASE: a complex of enzymes that cause glycolysis; originally found in yeast but also present in higher organisms
ZYMOID: resembling an enzyme
ZINC: coat or cover with zinc
ZING: a brief high-pitched buzzing or humming sound
ZINGER: a striking or amusing or caustic remark
ZINNIA: any of various plants of the genus Zinnia cultivated for their variously and brightly colored flower heads
ZION: originally a stronghold captured by David (the 2nd king of the Israelites); above it was built a temple and later the name extended to the whole hill; finally it became a synonym for the city of Jerusalem
ZIRCON: a common mineral occurring in small crystals; chief source of zirconium; used as a refractory when opaque and as a gem when transparent
ZITHER: a musical stringed instrument with strings stretched over a flat sounding board; it is laid flat and played with a plectrum and with fingers
ZITI: medium-sized tubular pasta in short pieces
ZIZZ: 1. a buzzing or whizzing sound. 2. a nap. 
ZLOTY: the basic unit of money in Poland
ZODIAC: 1. a belt-shaped region in the heavens on either side to the ecliptic; divided into 12 constellations or signs for astrological purposes. 2. (astrology) a circular diagram representing the 12 zodiacal constellations and showing their signs. 
ZOIC: pertaining to animals or animal life or action
ZOYSIA: any of several creeping grasses of the genus Zoysia
ZOMBI: 1. (voodooism) a spirit or supernatural force that reanimates a dead body. 2. a god of voodoo cults of African origin worshipped especially in West Indies. 3. a dead body that has been brought back to life by a supernatural force. 
ZOMBIE: several kinds of rum with fruit juice and usually apricot liqueur
ZONAL: 1. relating to or of the nature of a zone. 2. associated with or divided into zones. 
ZONE: 1. regulate housing in; of certain areas of towns. 2. any of the regions of the surface of the Earth loosely divided according to latitude or longitude. 3. an area or region distinguished from adjacent parts by a distinctive feature or characteristic. 4. (anatomy) any encircling or beltlike structure. 
ZONING: dividing an area into zones or sections reserved for different purposes such as residence and business and manufacturing etc
ZONULE: small beltlike zone
ZOOID: one of the distinct individuals forming a colonial animal such as a bryozoan or hydrozoan
ZOOM: 1. move along very quickly. 2. move with a low humming noise. 
ZORIL: muishond of northern Africa
ZULU: 1. a member of the tall Negroid people of eastern South Africa; some live in KwaZulu-Natal under the traditional clan system but many now work in the cities. 2. a community of Negroid people in eastern South Africa. 3. a Bantu language of considerable literary importance in southeastern Africa. 
ZUNI: a member of the Pueblo people living in western New Mexico
ZURICH: the largest city in Switzerland; located in the northern part of the country